b'The Hon Mr Justice Cooke:   INTRODUCTION The Claimant (SNCB) seeks damages from the Defendant (UBS) for breach of contract.  There is an issue as to the contractual documentation, since SNCB maintains that this includes a Term Sheet sent to it by UBS on the 19 November 2001 and the 7 December 2001. An Amended Deposit Agreement dated as of 19 November 2001 (the ADA), which was, on the evidence, executed in January 2003, and Security Agreements dated 17 January 2003 and 15 January 2009 (which are not materially different), are agreed to be part of the contractual documentation.\r\n   The claim arises out of the ADA by which SNCB paid UBS a sum of $39.75M in 2001 in return for payments made by UBS to SNCB of approximately $12.86M dollars in January 2003-January 2005 and a further sum of approximately $165M to be paid in 2031.  The payments due to SNCB under the Agreement were intended to enable it to pay its obligations under a cross border lease in respect of Belgian railway infrastructure, where SNCB had entered into a sale and lease back with an option of repurchase at the end of the 30 year term.  The critical features of the ADA, for current purposes, were that UBS was obliged to make the repayments set out in Annex 1 subject to the occurrence of a Credit Event in respect of any specified Reference Entity, as those terms were defined in the ADA.  Should such a Credit Event occur, UBS\' future repayment obligations would be terminated in respect of the portion of the Deposit linked to that Reference Entity and UBS would be bound, instead of making that repayment, to deliver to SNCB, bonds of that Reference Entity with a face value equivalent to an Accreted Amount to be calculated in accordance with the terms of the ADA.  The ADA also provided that UBS was to set up a Collateral Account, being a segregated account, which would constitute security for its repayment obligations. In SNCB\'s submission, it was also security for the obligation of UBS to deliver the Reference Entity bonds on the happening of a Credit Event.  The Collateral Account was to consist of bonds of Reference Entities and/or cash in US dollars.  The essential points of construction and implied terms at issue between the parties concern the link (if any) between the Collateral provisions and the Credit Event provisions of the ADA.\r\n   In March and July 2010 Credit Events are said to have occurred in respect of one of the Reference Entities, Ambac Assurance Corporation. SNCB now accepts that all three were Credit Events within the meaning of the ADA, though it did not do so at the time. At the end of March, the Collateral Account contained Ambac bonds (in fact Municipal Bonds, guaranteed by Ambac) which had a market value of around $9M.  SNCB maintains that under the ADA, UBS was required to deliver to it those Ambac Municipal bonds in the Collateral Account at the time of the Credit Event, whereas what in fact happened was that, over a three and a half month period, UBS replaced the Ambac Muncipal bonds in the Collateral with cash and then subsequently substituted other Ambac guaranteed bonds (Ambac Terwin Bonds) of much lesser value (about $2m), served a Credit Event Notice on July 12 and delivered them to SNCB on the 12 August 2010.  \r\n   Of the three relevant Credit Events, the first, as determined by ISDA on 26 March, took place on 24 March 2010, and was the subject of contest in correspondence between the parties thereafter. No Credit Event Notice was served in respect of it. The second took place on 25 March but did not come to the attention of UBS until 9 June 2010. The third occurred on 1 July. UBS relied only on the latter two in its Credit Event Notice on 12 July. No issue arises as to the timeliness of that Notice in respect of those two events. The question is whether or not UBS was entitled to take this course of action, which gives rise to arguments about the composition of the contractual documentation and its construction, about implied terms and about the exercise of contractual discretion.\r\n    SNCB\'s case is that UBS\' decisions to replace the contents of the Collateral Account after the ISDA Credit Event and to deliver to it the cheapest bonds it could find had the purpose and effect of benefiting UBS\' commercial interests at the expense of SNCB\'s interests.  Those decisions are alleged to be contrary to SNCB\'s rights, its reasonable expectations and the purposes for which UBS\' power to manage the Collateral was conferred, amounting to an abuse of UBS\' contractual power and a breach of contract that has caused SNCB substantial loss.\r\n   THE PRINCIPAL ISSUES, AS DEFINED BY SNCB. The principal issues, as set out in SNCB\'s skeleton argument are said to be as follows:-\r\n   i)\tWhether, on the true construction of the Deposit Agreement and/or by way of an implied term, SNCB was entitled to receive and UBS was obliged to deliver to SNCB the Ambac Municipal Bonds, contained in the Collateral Account at the time of or following a Credit Event in respect of Ambac as part of the Delivery Portfolio.  ii)\tWhether UBS\'s removal of the Ambac Municipal Bonds from the Collateral Account, replacement with cash, transfer of the Terwin Bonds into the Collateral Account and delivery of them to SNCB was an impermissible exercise of UBS\'s discretion amounting to a breach of the Deposit Agreement. This issue raises the following sub-issues:  a)\tWhether, on the true construction of the Deposit Agreement or by way of an implied term, it was an impermissible exercise of discretion for UBS to remove the Ambac Municipal Bonds from the Collateral Account and replace them with cash and subsequently the Terwin Bonds and deliver them to SNCB because that defeated the reasonable expectations of the parties.  b)\tWhether, on the true construction of the Deposit Agreement or by way of an implied term, it was an impermissible exercise of discretion for UBS to remove the Ambac Municipal Bonds from the Collateral Account and replace them with cash and subsequently the Terwin Bonds and deliver them to SNCB for the primary or substantial purpose of conferring a commercial benefit on UBS at the expense of SNCB.  c)\tIf the implied term described at paragraph (b) above is established, whether UBS\'s discretion to replace the Ambac Municipal Bonds in the Collateral Account with cash and subsequently the Terwin Bonds and deliver them to SNCB was in fact exercised for the primary or substantial purpose of conferring a commercial benefit on UBS at the expense of SNCB.  d)\tWhether, by way of an implied term of the Deposit Agreement, UBS\'s discretion to transfer and hold cash in the Collateral Account cannot be exercised for any purpose other than ensuring that the mark to market value (MTMV) of the Collateral was at least 100% of the MTMV of the Deposit during any time when UBS was unable to transfer sufficient Obligations into the Collateral Account by the last business day of the month.  e)\tIf the implied term described at paragraph (d) above is established, whether UBS\'s discretion to remove the Ambac Municipal Bonds from the Collateral Account, replace them with cash, and hold the cash until 9 August 2010 was in fact exercised other than for the proper purpose identified in paragraph (d) above.  iii)\tWhether UBS\'s breaches of the Deposit Agreement have caused SNCB any recoverable loss; and, what is the quantum of SNCB\'s loss. Paragraph 9 of the  Re- Amended Particulars of Claim, served a week before the trial, provides as follows:-\r\n   "On the true construction of the express terms of the Deposit Agreement, in particular, the terms set out in Schedule 2 in the light of the factual background to that agreement pleaded herein, and/or by way of an implied term: (1)\tFrom 31 January 2003, UBS was required to ensure that on the last business day of each month the mark to market value of the Collateral held in the Collateral Account was at least 100 per cent of the mark to market value of the Deposit. (2)\tUBS was required on the last business day of each month to transfer Collateral into the Collateral Account in an amount sufficient to satisfy its obligation described at paragraph 9 (1) above if on that day the mark to market value of the Collateral held in the Collateral Account was less than 100 per cent of the mark to value of the Deposit. (3)\tUBS had a discretion to determine whether the Collateral which it was required to transfer into the Collateral Account as described in paragraph 9(2) above or which it was entitled to transfer into the Collateral Account would be in the form of Obligations of the Reference Entities ("Obligations") or cash in US Dollars ("cash"). (4)\tUBS\'s discretion described at paragraph 9(3) above cannot be exercised by UBS for any purpose other than the purposes for which that discretion was conferred.  The purposes for which the aforesaid discretion was conferred on UBS was limited: To transferring cash into the Collateral Account if on the last business day of each month the mark to market value of the Deposit was more than 100% of the mark to market value of the Collateral and UBS was unable to transfer sufficient Obligations into the Collateral Account by the last business day of the month.  Such cash was permitted to be held in the Collateral Account only for such period of time as was necessary to enable UBS to obtain sufficient Obligations to replace the cash in the Collateral Account. (4A)\tUBS was not entitled to remove any Obligations of a Reference Entity that were held within the Collateral Account at any time after: (a) an event had occurred with respect to that Reference Entity which entitled UBS to serve a Credit Event Notice under clause 4 of the Deposit Agreement; or (b) UBS had formed or expressed an intention of serving a Credit Event Notice in respect of that Reference Entity.  If UBS elected to serve a Credit Event Notice in respect of that Reference Entity and to deliver a Delivery Portfolio to SNCB, UBS was required to deliver any Obligations of that Reference Entity held in the Collateral Account at the time of the Credit Event or when UBS formed or expressed an intention to serve a Credit Event Notice as part of the Delivery Portfolio. (5)\tUBS\'s obligation or right to transfer Collateral into the Collateral Account and/or right to remove Collateral from the Collateral Account and/or discretion to determine whether such Collateral would be in the form of Obligations or cash (as described above) cannot be relied upon where, and/or cannot be exercised by UBS in a manner or for a purpose, that was contrary to, or inconsistent with or which had the effect of defeating the aforesaid limited rights and purposes and/or the reasonable expectations of the parties as to SNCB\'s rights under the Deposit Agreement. (6)\tThe parties\' reasonable expectation and/or presumed intention was that: (i)\tIf Obligations of a Reference Entity were held within the Collateral Account at a time when (a) an event had occurred with respect to that Reference Entity which entitled UBS to serve a Credit Event Notice under clause 4 of the Deposit Agreement, or (b) UBS had expressed the intention of serving a Credit Event Notice, or (c) UBS was aware it could serve a Credit Event Notice and UBS subsequently served a Credit Event Notice, those same Obligations would be Delivered to SNCB and other Obligations of the Reference Entity not held within the Collateral Account would be Delivered to SNCB only if and to the extent that there were insufficient Obligations in the Collateral Account to cover the required Delivery. (ii)\tIf Obligations of a Reference Entity were held within the Collateral at a time when UBS was considering whether to serve a Credit Event Notice or had expressed to SNCB an intention to serve a Credit Event Notice, UBS would not remove those Obligations from the Collateral and/or replace them with cash and/or Obligations of a lesser value at all and/or so as to confer on UBS a commercial benefit and/or deprive SNCB of the benefit it was entitled to receive, in the form of the value of the Obligations held in the Collateral that would be required to be delivered to SNCB, if UBS served a Credit Event Notice. (7)\tUBS\'s right to remove Collateral from the Collateral Account and/or UBS\'s discretion to determine whether Collateral would be in the form of Obligations or cash must be exercised: (i) honestly and in good faith for a proper purpose having regard to the terms of the Deposit Agreement and/or the purposes and/or the reasonable expectations of the parties pleaded herein; and (ii) not arbitrarily, capriciously or unreasonably". In my judgement, the real issue between the parties is the question of construction of the contractual documents, whether or not the processes of construction and implication of terms have become assimilated. In my judgment, there is real difficulty in seeking to imply terms of the kind suggested into agreements of the nature of those concluded here, whatever language is adopted as the test for implication of terms, as set out in the different authorities on the point.  Further, when two or more implied terms are put forward, which differ in substance (as opposed to semantics only), the force of the argument is diminished that any one of them is necessarily to be implied to give effect to the true meaning of the contract and/or fulfil the parties\' joint expectations as the only term which "fits". Moreover, there is difficulty in the suggestion that a commercial party to a sophisticated Credit Linked Deposit Agreement of this kind could act contrary to the reasonable expectations of the parties to it and/or abuse its contractual discretion, in such a way as to give rise to a claim for damages, if the express terms of the contract appear to allow it to do what was done. \r\n   SNCB has had several attempts at formulating terms which are said to be implied into the ADA, as set out in its statement of case, its evidence, its written opening, its written closing and oral submissions. That does not in itself cast doubt upon the final formulation, but the reason for reconstruction of those provisions may be significant. In its opening, SNCB accepted that UBS had no obligation to have any specific Reference Entity bonds in the Collateral Account prior to a Credit Event.  No implied term was pleaded as to the matching of Reference Entity bonds in the Collateral Account with the Current Percentage selected by UBS for the credit protection provisions. The benefit which SNCB seeks to obtain by the implication of such terms is therefore the delivery of bonds of a particular Reference Entity, the presence of which in the Collateral Account, it is accepted, is, so far as SNCB is concerned, a matter of happenstance, since UBS was free to decide which bonds of the Reference Entities were in the Collateral Account prior to the event upon which, it is said, the Collateral Account becomes effectively frozen. The effect of the implied terms is thus to create a windfall for SNCB- in other words to provide for something which was essentially unforeseeable or unpredictable and outside SNCB\'s control. In closing arguments, a new unpleaded implied term of matching was put forward.\r\n   THE ADA In order to understand the issues of construction and implication of implied terms, it is necessary to set out in extenso, some of the provisions of the ADA, including the paragraph on the frontispiece:-\r\n   "The Credit Risk of the Deposit is that of the Reference Entities. Principal is at risk on the deposit if there is a Credit Event in respect of bonds of a Reference Entity. Following a Credit Event the Deposit will partially be terminated early (to the extent of the Current Percentage of the Affected Reference Entity) and the Depositor will be delivered Obligations in lieu of repayment of the Deposit. The Obligations may have a market value below par, subject to a minimum of zero.  1. \tDeposit 1.1\tThe Depositor will pay or cause to be paid to UBS by crediting such account of UBS, as shall be notified by UBS to the Depositor, the Deposit Amount in same day funds on the Deposit Payment Date. 1.2\tSubject to Clause 4, UBS shall pay on the Repayment Dates the Scheduled Repayments, in accordance with the Repayment Schedule In Annex 1, to the Depositor in same day funds by crediting such account of the Depositor as notified by the Depositor to UBS. 1.3\tAll dates specified for payment to be made pursuant to this Agreement, whether in respect of interest or otherwise, shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with the Modified Following Business Day Convention. 2.\tReference Entity Current Percentages 2.1\tProvided that no Credit Event shall have occurred, the aggregate of all Current Percentages shall equal 100 per cent. The percentage of the Accreted Amount applicable to any Reference Entity at any time as selected by UBS is referred to as the "Current Percentage". After a Credit Event the aggregate of the Current Percentages will be reduced by the current Percentage applicable to the Affected Reference Entity at the time of that Credit Event. The Current Percentages at any time relate to the Initial Accreted Amount disregarding any Credit Events that have occurred. 2.2\tUBS may change the Current Percentage for any Reference Entity at any time, provided that the Reference Entity current Percentage Limits are observed.  Any Reference Entity with a Current Percentage of greater than zero may only be replaced with one of at least equivalent rating (ratings from Standard & Poors and Moody\'s) as at the time of replacement UBS will notify the Depositor of the Reference Entity Current Percentages at least every six months following the Deposit Payment Date and on any change to such current Percentages. 3.\tCollateral The Deposit is a secured obligation of UBS and is secured by way of a first priority continuing security interest over the Collateral, in accordance with the Security Agreement dated on or about the date hereof. 3.1\tThe Collateral may only include Collateral Securities or USD cash.  3.2\tThe mark to market value when determined by UBS acting in good faith ("MTMV") of the Collateral is required to be at least 100 per cent of the MTMV of the Deposit. All coupons or other payments from the Collateral will be retained by UBS. 3.3\tUBS will be required, until 17 December 2002, semi-annually to ensure that the correct amount of Collateral is held in the Collateral Account.  From the 31 January 2003, UBS will be required monthly, on the last business day of each month, to ensure that the correct amount of Collateral is held in the Collateral Account. This may involve UBS transferring Collateral to the Collateral Account or removing Collateral from the Collateral Account. UBS will deliver the Collateral to the Collateral Account within an accumulation period of 20 Business Days from Deposit Payment Date. 3.4\tUBS will provide a statement of the Collateral following each semi-annual mark to market. The first such statement will be prepared immediately following 17 December 2001. The second mark to market will take place on 20 May 2002 and a statement will be prepared immediately thereafter.  From the 31 January 2003, the mark to markets will take place monthly on the last business day of each month. The statement will specify: (a) the mark to market value of the Deposit; and  (b) the Collateral in the Collateral Account and its mark to market value. 4.\tCredit Event 4.1\tUBS shall have the right following the occurrence of one or more of the Credit Events (regardless of whether such Credit Event is still in existence) on or after the Deposit Payment Date and on or prior to the Business Day immediately preceding the Scheduled Final Repayment Date, on giving notice in writing (the "Credit Event Notice") to the Depositor, to Deliver the Delivery Portfolio in lieu of partial repayment of the Scheduled Repayments. UBS shall determine in its absolute discretion whether a Credit Event has occurred. No later than 30 calendar days following the delivery of the Credit Event Notice, UBS shall send a notice (the "Notice of Portfolio") to the Depositor, listing the Obligations in the Delivery Portfolio and on the Physical Settlement Date, Deliver the Delivery Portfolio to the Depositor (to the account specified by Depositor) and the Depositor shall accept Delivery of such Delivery Portfolio, In each case subject to and in accordance with the Physical Settlement Provisions. 4.2 Subject to Defaulted Issuer Replacement following Delivery of the Delivery Portfolio in accordance with Clause 4.1, early termination of this Agreement and the rights and obligations of the parties hereto in respect of such terminated part ("Partial Early Termination"), will occur on the Physical Settlement Date in respect of the Current Percentage of the future Scheduled Repayments and Accreted Amount applicable to the Affected Reference Entity at the time of the Credit Event (ignoring for the avoidance of doubt any reduction as a result of prior Credit Events). The Accreted Amounts and the future Scheduled Repayments will be reduced by amounts equal to the Initial Repayment Schedule multiplied by the Current Percentage of the Reference Entity. For the avoidance of doubt, the Scheduled Repayments and Accreted Amount are exposed to the Reference Entities to the extent of their respective Current Percentages, not to the actual amount of bonds of the Reference Entity in the Collateral Account at the time of a Credit Event. Schedule\t Definitions Save as otherwise defined in this Agreement, the following expressions shall have the following meanings: "Accreted Amount" means the Deposit Amount accreted at the Accretion Yield, allowing for Scheduled Repayments Amount (as set out in Annex 1) and amended as described in Clause 4 for any Credit Events.  The Accreted Amounts on certain dates (ignoring any reduction for Credit Events) are set out in Annex 1. "Accretion Yield" means 6.0368%, calculated on 30/360 semi-annual day count basis, and applied to the Deposit Amount (taking into account the Scheduled Repayments), beginning on the Deposit Payment Date. "Affected Reference Entity" means any Reference Entity in respect of which a Credit Event has been declared. "Credit Event" means any event of default, howsoever described, in respect of any Obligation of any Reference Entity. "Collateral" means the Obligations of the Reference Entities and/or USD cash. "Collateral Account" means a segregated account in the name of UBS Warburg International Limited (or such other entity nominated by UBS in accordance with the Security Agreement) with the Custodian. "Collateral Securities" means the Obligations in the Collateral Account from time to time. "Current Percentage" shall have the meaning given in clause 2.2. "Deliver" means to deliver, novate, transfer, assign or sell, as appropriate, in the manner customary for the settlement of the applicable Collateral Securities (which shall include executing all necessary documentation and taking any other necessary actions), in order to convey all right, title and interest in the Collateral Securities comprising the Delivery Portfolio to the Depositor free and clear of any and all liens, charges, claims or encumbrances (including without limitation any counterclaim, defence (other than a defence based on (a) any lack or alleged lack of authority or capacity of the Reference Entity or Collateral Securities issuer to issue the Collateral Securities, (b) any actual or alleged unenforceability, illegality, impossibility or invalidity with respect to any Collateral Securities, however described, (c) any applicable law, order, regulation, decree or notice, however described, or the promulgation of, or any change in, the interpretation by any court, tribunal, regulatory authority or similar administrative or judicial body with competent or apparent jurisdiction of any applicable law, order, regulation, decree or notice, however described, or (d) the imposition of, or any change in, any exchange controls, capital restrictions or any other similar restrictions imposed by any monetary or other authority, however described) or right of setoff by or of the Reference Entity or Collateral issuer). "Delivery" and "Delivered" will be construed accordingly. "Delivery Portfolio" means with respect to each Credit Event, Obligations of the Affected Reference Entity, the sum of whose aggregate outstanding principal balance, without accrued but unpaid interest and other unpaid but due amounts, is equal to the Initial Accreted Amount as attached in Annex 1 (having no regard to any previous Credit Events, and applying the Accretion Yield to determine the exact Accreted Amount) muliplied by the current Percentage then applicable to the Affected Reference Entity. "Notice of Portfolio" has the meaning ascribed to it in clause 4.1. "Obligations" means with respect to any Reference Entity, any bonds of such Reference Entity either directly or in its capacity as unconditional guarantor, that rank at least equal in priority of payment with the senior unsecured debt obligations of the Reference Entity, and (a) are denominated and payable only in the lawful currency of G7 countries, Switzerland and Australia, and the EURO (Including all legacy currencies) (b) are repayable in an amount equal to their respective stated principal amounts, or in the case of zero coupon debt obligations, their outstanding balance calculated at their stated accretion yield (c) the repayment of which is not subject to any contingency. In the case of AMBAC and MBIA, Obligations will include only Guaranteed Bonds.  "Physical Settlement Provisions", if applicable, mean (a) UBS shall be deemed to represent to the Depositor on the Physical Settlement Date that it has conveyed (or, if applicable, caused to be conveyed) to the Depositor (or, if applicable, its designee) all right, title and interest in the Collateral Securities Delivered on such date free and clear of all claims, charges, liens and encumbrances. (c) (i) UBS agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement) to execute, deliver, file and record any specific assignment, novation or other document and take any other action that may be necessary or desirable and reasonably requested by the Depositor in connection with UBS\'s Delivery of the applicable Collateral Securities and the Depositor agrees to co-operate reasonably with UBS in connection with the foregoing; and /or (ii) If due to an event beyond the control of UBS, it is impossible, illegal or impractical for UBS to Deliver or due to an event beyond the control of then Depositor it is impossible or illegal for the Depositor to accept Delivery of the Delivery Portfolio or Collateral Securities in whole or in part on the Physical Settlement Date.  Failure to Deliver all or part of the Delivery Portfolio or Collateral Securities due to such impossibility, illegality or impracticality shall not constitute an Event of Default "Reference Entity" means any of: (i) (a) AMBAC Financial Group Inc., AMBAC Insurance Corporation; (b) American International Group, lnc "AIG" (which expression shall include AIG entities rated AAA by Standard & Poors or Aaa by Moody\'s Investor Services on the Deposit Date, and (c) Financial Security Assurance Inc., FSA Global Funding Inc. (d) MBIA Inc; (ii) US Agency securities, Including Federal National Mortgage Association ("Fannie Mae"), Federal Home Loan Banks ("FHLB"), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac), Tennessee Valley Authority and any agencies that are backed by the full faith and credit of the United states Government; and any Successors thereto. "Reference Entity Current Percentage Limits" means for category 1 above, the Current Percentage in respect of any Reference Entity shall be no more than 40% (of the Accreted Amount), subject to a maximum of 100%; Annex 1 \xc2\x96 Repayment Schedule     Repayment Date   Scheduled Repayments   Accreted Amount       19 Nov 01   (39,750,000.00)   \xc2\xa0       30 Dec 01   \xc2\xa0   40,020,160.42       01 Jan 02   \xc2\xa0   40,026,772.59       02 Jan 03   6,403,507.49   42,486,584.05       02 Jan 04   3,201,753.75   38,294,204.51       02 Jan 05   3,201,753.89   37,242,874.35       01 Jan 06   \xc2\xa0   36,121,151.80       01 Jan 07   \xc2\xa0   38,334,612.96       01 Jan 08   \xc2\xa0   40,683,712.38       01 Jan 09   \xc2\xa0   43,176,761.82       01 Jan 10   \xc2\xa0   45,822,582.36       01 Jan 11   \xc2\xa0   48,630,535.63       01 Jan 12   \xc2\xa0   51,610,556.93       01 Jan 13   \xc2\xa0   54,773,190.38       01 Jan 14   \xc2\xa0   58,129,626.25       01 Jan 15   \xc2\xa0   61,691,740.51       01 Jan 16   \xc2\xa0   65,472,136.88       01 Jan 17   \xc2\xa0   69,484,191.45       01 Jan 18   \xc2\xa0   73,742,099.94       01 Jan 19   \xc2\xa0   78,260,927.99       01 Jan 20   \xc2\xa0   83,056,664.44       01 Jan 21   \xc2\xa0   88,146,277.91       01 Jan 22   \xc2\xa0   93,547,776.83       01 Jan 23   \xc2\xa0   99,208,273.17       01 Jan 24   \xc2\xa0   105,364,050.06       01 Jan 25   \xc2\xa0   111,820,633.55       01 Jan 26   \xc2\xa0   118,672,868.78       01 Jan 27   \xc2\xa0   125,945,000.83       01 Jan 28   \xc2\xa0   113,662,760.47       01 Jan 29   \xc2\xa0   141,853,455,22       15 Apr 31   41,392,677.77   162,540,187.78       15 Jun 31   41,392,677.77   122,354,348.19       15 Sept 31   41,392,677.77   82,174,455.14       15 Dec 31   41,392,677.77   41,392.677.77   THE SECURITY AGREEMENT The recitals to the Security Agreement of 17 January 2003 refer to the Credit Linked Deposit Agreement (the ADA) and the agreement by UBS to procure a deposit of a portfolio of securities in the Collateral Account with a charging of that portfolio in favour of SNCB "to secure all the present and future obligations and liabilities of UBS under the Confirmation and the Agreement". "The Agreement" refers to the ADA. \r\n   By Clause 2 of the Security Agreement, the portfolio of securities lodged in the Collateral Account was charged and pledged in favour of SNCB by way of first fixed security, as were all the rights relating to the portfolios, as a continuing security.  There is no reference to cash as such as security in the Security Agreements, though this appears in clause 3 of the ADA and clause 11 of the former specifically catches the proceeds of sale of charged assets. The later Security Agreement is in materially identical terms.\r\n   THE CONTRACTUAL DOCUMENTS It is submitted by SNCB that the final Term Sheet, sent on 23 November and 7 December 2001was part of the contractual documentation and/or can be used as an aid to construction of the ADA. It provided that it was "subject to and should be read in conjunction with the Deposit Agreement and Security Agreement" and went on to say that "the Deposit will be entered into between the Depositor and UBS" and that "Documentation will comprise a Deposit Agreement and a Security Agreement prepared by UBS".  It is self evident and common ground that, when the Term Sheet provided that it was to be subject to the Deposit Agreement and the Security Agreement, the latter should prevail in the event of any conflict.  When however the Term Sheet refers to the Documentation consisting of a Deposit Agreement and a Security Agreement, it becomes plain that what the parties envisaged was that the Term Sheet would be superseded by the subsequent documentation.  \r\n   On 23 November, the email sent by UBS to SNCB attached the Term Sheet as a "revised and updated termsheet" which referred to an additional Reference Entity, which UBS hoped was acceptable and saying that the Deposit Agreement should be ready by the end of the day and would be sent by email. On 7 December, a Deposit Agreement was sent by email, "for the trade executed for payment on 19 November for your comments". The email continued " for ease of comparison I also attach the latest termsheet" (the same as that sent on 23 November), pointing out a difference in terminology and saying that an attempt had been made to keep the document as short as possible. Clearly the intention was that the Deposit Agreement would supersede the termsheet and was to include all relevant terms, other than those to be contained in the Security Agreement to which it referred. That was the purpose of conducting a comparison.\r\n   The Term Sheet was never signed by the parties, whether as a Trade Confirmation or as anything else. There are differences between the provisions of the Term Sheet and the provisions of the ADA and it is clear, in my judgement, that the ADA (dated as of 19 November 2001) and the Security Agreement, both executed in 2003, long after the payment of the $39.75M on 19 November 2001, were intended to encapsulate all of the agreed contractual terms, taking into account, as they did, developments which had taken place between November 2001 and January 2003. \r\n   Whilst a Deposit Agreement was executed by UBS at the turn of the 2001-2002 year, it was never executed by SNCB.  Miss Lauwereys could not recall why that was and, as a matter of SNCB policy, accepted that, as Treasurer of the Company, she would want to ensure that an agreed document was executed.  Her evidence was that the payment of $39.75m was made on 19 November 2001 on the basis of the first indicative Term Sheet dated 14 November 2001 and discussions which followed which led to the final Term Sheet of 23 November 2001, re-sent on 7 December 2001, though this was never signed. She did not say that this final Term Sheet contained the terms discussed and agreed orally. There was therefore no signed document at all which reflected whatever terms were agreed at the time of the payment of the Deposit and the anticipation that formal documents would be executed in the future. \r\n   Thereafter various draft Deposit Agreements were provided by UBS to SNCB. Various issues arose between the parties between December 2001 and 2003 whilst these documents were in circulation, but the ADA appears to have been executed at the same time as the Security Agreement of 17 January 2003, the latter being a document which should have been in existence from the outset as providing for a charge over the Collateral provided by UBS in respect of its obligations. No less than seven draft Deposit Agreements were sent by UBS over the interim period of 14 months, and an exchange between the parties in December 2002 shows that SNCB had not executed the current draft because Ms Lauwereys had further comments on it and points she wanted clarified before she was prepared to sign. Her evidence was that the developments which took place over the 14 month period meant that she wanted changes in the Documentation. She effectively accepted that, by the time of the ADA, the transaction was different from that described in the Final Term Sheet. For a payment of some $936,000 by SNCB, agreed around October 2002, changes were agreed in the identity of the Reference Entities referred to in the unsigned versions of the Deposit Agreement furnished by UBS, by eliminating GECC and various investment companies. Hence perhaps the appellation "Amended" in the ADA, since there must have been agreement to the originally specified Reference Entities, as the operation of the agreement proceeded on the basis of UBS selecting the current percentage for each Reference Entity. There must have been therefore some agreement which governed the position before the signature of the ADA, but it is unnecessary to determine whether that was on the terms of the final Term Sheet, the Deposit Agreement executed by UBS alone or some other terms, because all were superseded by the ADA, which contained significant differences as compared to that Term Sheet.\r\n   In the first general paragraph of the final Term Sheet, there was provision that, if any of the bonds in the Reference Entity Portfolio (the Collateral Account) suffered a Credit Event, the deposit would partially terminate, without any election on the part of the parties. In the ADA, however, UBS was given the right to terminate on the happening of a Credit Event in respect of any bond of any Reference Entity.  Later in the Term Sheet, UBS is given the right to declare a Credit Event, when it becomes aware of any event of default and the Credit Event Date is defined as that date on which UBS determines that a Credit Event has occurred. That too differs from the ADA.  As already mentioned the Reference Entities and the permissible limits of holdings in each of them were changed as was the frequency of the provision of the statements of the Collateral Account. \r\n   Critically, in the final Term Sheet, Deliverable Obligations are defined as "Any bonds in the Reference Entity Portfolio" and the following wording appears:\r\n   "Deliverable Obligations will be bonds in the Reference Entity Delivery Portfolio. However, if following a Credit Event, there are insufficient obligations of the Affected Reference Entity, in the collateral account to cover the delivery required, because the Accreted Face Amount is greater than the market value of the Deposit, UBS may, to the extent of the shortfall only, deliver other obligations of the Affected Reference Entity which meet the Reference Entity Delivery Portfolio criteria. If there are more obligations of the Affected Reference Entity in the collateral account than required, they will be returned to UBS." This is wording upon which SNCB sought to rely but the ADA included no such wording at all about delivery of bonds in the Collateral Account following the happening of a Credit Event and the concept involved in this provision in the Term Sheet is inconsistent with any provision for the delivery of the Delivery Portfolio in the ADA. This provision in the final Term Sheet talks of making good a shortfall of bonds of the Affected Reference Entity in the Collateral Account, where the shortfall is assessed by reference to the difference between the Accreted Face Amount and the market value of the Deposit. In the ADA, as is common ground, the obligation is to deliver sufficient bonds of the Affected Reference Entity whose nominal face value equates to the Accreted Amount. The exact terms will be the subject of later discussion in this judgment but the market value of the Deposit is an irrelevance for this purpose, as both parties accepted. Thus, the very point for which SNCB wishes to rely on the Term Sheet illustrates that the Term Sheet had been superseded, so that the construction of the ADA must fall to be determined on its own terms.\r\n   By the time that the ADA was signed, this final Term Sheet had long been superseded. It was, in any event, in my judgment, never intended to be a contractual document once the Documentation to which it referred had been executed, which was anticipated to be a Deposit Agreement and Security Agreement. Given all that had occurred between November 2001 and January 2003, with the ADA specifically taking effect as from 19 November 2001, there is no scope to treat the final Term Sheet as a current contractual document, even if it once was. It may have governed the position temporarily, but life had moved on by the time that a Deposit Agreement was drafted and discussed and even more so by the time that the ADA was signed which was in different terms and intended to govern the relationship as from the outset, when the deposit was paid. \r\n   In the definitions part of the Security Agreement, "Security Documents" are said to refer to the Security Agreement itself, "the Confirmations and the Agreement".   The Security Agreement defines "the Agreement" as the ADA but never defines "the Confirmation" or "the Confirmations". These words could not, in my judgement, refer to the final Term Sheet because it was never signed as a Confirmation would be and it was, for the reasons already given, superseded by the "Documentation", which, unlike ISDA conditions, which require a Trade Confirmation to set out the main terms, contained a comprehensive body of terms, which did not require reference to any Confirmation document.  The ADA was complete in itself, subject only to any need for a Security Agreement.\r\n   Accepting therefore, that the Term Sheet is admissible as a contractual document which once governed the position, or even accepting it, merely for the sake of  argument, as SNCB submitted in the alternative, as either evidence of background known to the parties or of the genesis and object of a provision in or of the transaction itself (about which there was much scope for, and actual, argument, in the context of inadmissible evidence of negotiations- see  Chartbrook Ltd v Persimmon Homes Ltd   [2009] 1AC 1101  and   Scottish Widows v BGC International   [2011] EWCA Civ 607 ), this Term Sheet cannot assist when it comes to construing the terms of the ADA, where the basis of the deal appears to have changed, no similar term appears and both the terms and the relevant concept are significantly different from this provision.  \r\n   THE EVIDENCE I heard evidence from Ms Lauwereys, the Treasurer of SNCB, whilst a statement of one of SNCB\'s in-house lawyers was read without the need for cross examination.  I heard also from Mr Bonomo, the trader engaged by UBS, who, on his evidence, made the relevant decisions in 2010, after consultation with his Line Managers, Mr Poole and Mr Cortesani, to move the Ambac Municipal bonds out of the Collateral Account and sell them, to replace them with cash, to purchase the Ambac Terwin bonds, put them in the Collateral Account and then deliver them to SNCB in purported satisfaction of UBS\' obligations under the ADA.  I also heard from Ms Anky Chan, an in-house lawyer employed by UBS.  All these witnesses gave evidence which reflected their views of the proper construction and effect of the ADA.  \r\n   Ms Lauwereys was a shrewd witness, although her evidence as to why contractual documentation was not signed until January 2003 was unsatisfactory and her inadmissible evidence of her beliefs as to the construction of the ADA at its conclusion and thereafter was inconsistent with the documents and the history in 2008-9 in particular and raised as many questions as it answered. Her evidence as to her understanding of the implied terms (if of any relevance) also differed from that in her statement and that pleaded by SNCB.  Ms van Cauter\'s evidence added nothing of significance.\r\n   Mr Bonomo was unnecessarily defensive in cross examination, both generally and on specific subjects. Although frank about UBS\' use of what it perceived to be its contractual rights to advance its own commercial interests, which necessarily were at the expense of SNCB, he was not prepared to accept the obvious inference to be drawn from the documents. It is, in my judgement, plain that, from about February 2010 onwards, UBS considered what it was entitled to do under the ADA and then did it, whilst taking some steps (such as putting cash and the Ambac Terwin bonds into the Collateral Account before transferring them to SNCB) with a view to facilitating that course of action and cutting off various arguments which SNCB might have against it.  There was, moreover, a reluctance on his part to accept that the introduction of some $10M-12M into the Collateral Account, following the removal of the Municipal bonds was merely a temporary measure whilst UBS considered whether a Credit Event could be established for the purposes of the ADA (and SNCB possibly convinced of it) and whilst it sought to obtain "cheapest to deliver" Ambac bonds (as it turned out, the Terwin bonds) which it desired to put into the Collateral Account and then deliver to SNCB in lieu of partial repayment. This attitude on his part was, I take it, because SNCB alleged that UBS had manipulated the situation and exploited an arbitrage opportunity at its expense, and had deliberately delayed serving a Credit Event Notice until it could do so. As SNCB eschewed any case that UBS was debarred from relying on the Credit Event Notice on grounds of delay alone, this defensiveness and unwillingness to answer questions directly was completely unnecessary and unhelpful.  Apart from this, I had no difficulty in accepting his evidence as to the actions taken and the reason for the sale of the Ambac Municipal Bonds and the timing of the Credit Event Notice. I found Ms Chan to be an honest and considered witness whose evidence was accurate and reliable on matters within her own knowledge. To the extent that it was suggested that either of them acted dishonestly or improperly, with any improper motive, and not in accordance with the rights of UBS as they understood them to be, I reject any such notion.\r\n   Ms Lauwereys\' evidence was that the ADA was seen by SNCB as a low risk transaction, concluded in accordance with SNCB\'s Financial Policy.  I have no doubt that it was seen as low risk at the time it was concluded because, as appears hereafter, SNCB, under its terms, did not rely upon the credit worthiness of UBS but upon the credit worthiness of a basket of Triple A rated Reference Entities and their bonds which were to constitute security for UBS\' repayment obligations. Such Entities were doubtless seen as low risk at the time. It was nonetheless a Credit Linked Deposit Agreement, inasmuch as, on the happening of a Credit Event in relation to one of these Reference Entities, UBS was given the right to deliver bonds of the Affected Reference Entity in place of some of its obligations to repay.  The financial terms of the deal reflected this agreement by SNCB to expose itself to the risk of failure of one or more of these Reference Entities rather than that of UBS.  Mr Bonomo described this aspect as the sale by SNCB of credit protection to UBS and the settlement mechanism on the occurrence of a Credit Event was seen by UBS as that of a Credit Default Swap (CDS). \r\n   At the end of the day, whether the transaction was seen as "low risk" or not, and whether the deal fitted with SNCB\'s Financial Policy or not, whether at the outset or subsequently, the court has to construe the contractual documents. The fact is that Ambac failed and it was a Reference Entity on whose credit SNCB relied, as Triple A rated entities. Whether the deal was low risk at the outset, or was seen by SNCB as such, is nothing to the point.  Moreover, as already mentioned, other Reference Entities originally agreed, such as GECC, were removed from the deal before signature of the ADA, because of a change of view about their creditworthiness. The risk that SNCB agreed to take was the credit risk of the Reference Entities selected by UBS, within the parameters laid down in the ADA. \r\n   From August 2008 onwards, some other Reference Entities were seen as more risky than originally perceived, including Ambac, and there was discussion of, but no agreement on, restructuring that was acceptable to both. There was recognition in correspondence in September 2008 from SNCB\'s lawyers of the need for UBS to maintain switching rights and freedom to deal with the collateral. \r\n   By July 2009, Ambac\'s rating was Caa2.  At that time the Ambac Municipal bonds were not in the Collateral Account (only being transferred into it in August and November 2009). Moreover Ms Lauwereys accepted in evidence that, although she wanted it changed, and a side letter was contemplated, she had accepted (as shown by the correspondence in September and October 2008) that UBS was free to put into the Collateral Account any Obligations of any Reference Entity it wished. \r\n   Although there was, in 2010, an issue as to whether or not a Credit Event had occurred, it now appears to be common ground that several Credit Events did take place and SNCB\'s allegation of "exploitation of an arbitrage opportunity" by UBS focuses on the ISDA Credit Event of March 2010, because it was only after this occurrence that UBS obtained the Terwin Bonds.  Ambac\'s position was previously known to be dubious, as I have already mentioned and by 3 February 2010, one trader in UBS, Mr Sebek took the view that Ambac was "likely to go down" and that if it did, SNCB would not get the Municipal bonds but the "cheapest to deliver Ambac bonds" in accordance with CDS settlement mechanisms (without any agreed option of a cash settlement based on ISDA auction pricing).  On 1 March 2010, UBS put Ambac on its Credit Event Watch List and advised its staff to begin preparations for a possible Credit Event.   At this time the Current Percentages allocated by UBS in the credit protection scheme were 40% AIG, 40% Ambac and 20% FSA.\r\n   On the 24 March 2010 Ambac established a Segregated Account for some of its liabilities, at the direction of the Wisconsin Insurance Regulator and the Wisconsin state court made an order placing that Account in rehabilitation in order to facilitate an orderly settlement or run-off of the liabilities contained in it, whilst preventing payment of any liabilities until further order.  On the 26 March the ISDA Credit Derivatives Determinations Committee decided that these events constituted a bankruptcy credit event for ISDA purposes and that there would be an auction of Ambac derivatives in the segregated account, the date of which was not then known.  The Ambac Municipal bonds, which were not part of the Segregated Account, maintained value because of the credit worthiness of the Municipalities involved, the market having already discounted any additional value to be attributed to the Ambac "wrap" (guarantee) of the bonds.  By contrast the Ambac bonds in the Segregated Account, including Terwin bonds, did lose a considerable amount of value. Such a situation was unusual.\r\n   Both parties considered the position and discussed it, one with the other.  On 15 April 2010, UBS emailed SNCB saying that ISDA had determined that a bankruptcy credit event had occurred in respect of Ambac and that in accordance with the ADA, UBS had the right to serve a Credit Event Notice and that its current intention was to do so. \r\n   Mr Bonomo\'s evidence was that he believed that an ISDA Credit Event had occurred but that legal advice was needed. There was a potential issue whether or not it constituted a Credit Event for the purposes of the ADA. UBS needed time to establish that a Credit Event had occurred within the meaning of the ADA but by this stage he had decided, in consultation with Mr Poole, that the Municipal bonds in the Collateral Account should be sold regardless. He also decided that a cash settlement should be made with SNCB, if they were agreeable, in relation to the Credit Event by reference to ISDA Auction Terms, although there was no provision for that in the ADA. Failing that, after consultation with the in-house legal team, the formal process of the ADA would have to be followed with a delivery of the cheapest to deliver Ambac bonds in accordance with UBS\' construction of the ADA. I accept the evidence of Mr Bonomo and Ms Chan that he was the senior Trader responsible for these decisions, after consulting his line manager.\r\n   The 15 April email suggested discussion of a proposed cash settlement, outside the terms of the ADA, replacing the Physical Settlement procedure set out in it. That cash settlement would be at a price which reflected the ISDA auction which was due to take place at a date in the future in respect of bonds in the Segregated Account. It was the uncontradicted evidence of the UBS witnesses that cash settlements were commonly used in preference to physical settlements and that, because of the confidence that a fair market price was best determined in ISDA auctions, cash settlement agreements were frequently made on the basis of such ISDA auction prices before the auction occurred and the actual prices were determined. (Whilst the date of the auction was then unknown to either of the parties, it in fact occurred on 4 June 2010.) In the email, UBS reserved its right to serve a Credit Event Notice and a Notice of Portfolio (due 30 days thereafter) on SNCB in respect of Ambac and to physically settle the Ambac Credit Event in accordance with the ADA. I accept the evidence of Ms Chan that, given UBS\' position, which (it is accepted) it had expressed to SNCB, prior to 3 February 2010, that it was entitled to settle with "cheapest to deliver" qualifying Ambac bonds and its continuing view of that entitlement, it saw the cash settlement offer as one which might be attractive to SNCB, for the reasons expressed in the email.  \r\n   On the 27 April Mr Bonomo gave instructions for removal of the Ambac Municipal Bonds from the Collateral Account and for their replacement with cash. I accept that this was his decision. Belatedly, a Collateral Deposit Statement as at 31 March 2010 was also sent on 27 April also to SNCB, which showed that the Ambac Municipal bonds were held in the Collateral Account as at 31 March.  On the 30 April 2010, UBS informed SNCB of its intention to replace the Ambac Municipal bonds in the Collateral Account with cash and then sent a Collateral/Deposit statement as at that date indicating that they had been replaced with USD $9.2M.  Mr Bonomo\'s evidence, which I accept, was that he removed the Ambac Municipal Bonds from the Collateral Account so that he could sell them. He wished to sell them because they were illiquid and UBS was exposed on them without any hedge or any realistic hedging possibility.  As revealed in cross examination on the documents, UBS had Credit Default Swap exposures on Ambac bonds also. UBS was at risk of any market movement in the Ambac Municipal Bonds whose value depended on the creditworthiness of the Municipality concerned. Mr Bonomo of the Structured Credit Trading Team was not familiar with Municipal Bonds as such and decided to sell them to reduce the exposure. This was a commercial decision, taken in what were seen as UBS\' best commercial interests.\r\n   90% of these bonds were sold in a period of 5/6 days thereafter with a further 10% on 8 June 2010, some at a profit and some at a loss. The date of the auction was not yet known but some at UBS thought it would be early June. UBS considered it was in a position to serve a Credit Event Notice, according to Ms Chan, on the basis of the ISDA decision that Ambac had suffered a Credit Event, but did not do so, since it had made a proposal for a cash settlement which SNCB would need time to consider. In her experience negotiation of a cash settlement often required more than 30 days and serving a Credit Event Notice would set in chain the process by which UBS would have to serve a Notice of Portfolio within 30 days, setting out the bonds which it would deliver and would have to physically settle those bonds (which customarily took 3 days) thereafter. Whilst Mr Bonomo considered it generally best not to delay in serving a Credit Event Notice, because of the daily increase in the Accreted Amount, to which the face values of the bonds to be delivered would have to match, UBS was prepared to wait for SNCB\'s response to the cash settlement offer and it did not purchase any of the "cheapest to deliver" Ambac bonds at that stage.   \r\n   It was suggested in cross examination to Mr Bonomo that there was a strategy to sell the Municipal Bonds and put cash into the Collateral Account to buy time until the ISDA auction, following which UBS would go out into the market to buy the "cheapest to deliver" Ambac bonds to constitute the Delivery Portfolio, and thus take advantage of what was described as an "arbitrage opportunity". He denied this but, although he said he must have had a good reason at the time to put cash into the Collateral, as opposed to other bonds, he could not recall what the reason was.  Whilst I accept that he had good commercial reasons to sell the Municipal Bonds and to deliver "cheapest to deliver bonds", as he considered he was entitled to do, the input of cash as opposed to securities into the Collateral must have been done with a view to holding the position on a temporary basis, as actually happened. If a cash settlement was agreed without a Credit Event Notice, then there would be no need to deliver Ambac bonds in a Delivery Portfolio, but if a Credit Event Notice were to be served or treated as if served, with either cash settlement or delivery of Reference Entity securities in lieu of partial repayment, there would be a need to adjust the Collateral Account to match the MTMV of the remaining repayment obligations. Moreover, as, in due course, the cheapest to deliver Ambac bonds were placed in the Collateral Account (with a view, in my judgment, to scotching or reducing the risk of a successful argument that the ADA required Collateral Account securities to be delivered as the Delivery Portfolio), it is a fair inference that the cash collateral was always intended as a temporary measure, facilitating adjustment and/or replacement with the Terwin Bonds. At this stage however, a cash settlement offer was still on the table, which Mr Bonomo hoped would be accepted and no purchase of "cheapest to deliver" bonds was immediately in view.  \r\n   Mr Bonomo was not trying to buy time to improve UBS\' position at the expense of SNCB as such, but he did need time to acquire other cheap Ambac bonds which fulfilled the requirements of the Delivery Portfolio provisions, as he accepted in cross examination. He sold the Ambac Municipal bonds because he considered that UBS was entitled to do so, and always intended to deliver "cheapest to deliver" Ambac bonds, should Physical Settlement be required. There was thus no strategy to do down SNCB as such, but there was an intention to exercise UBS\' rights for its commercial interests and benefit, which, if the contract allowed UBS to do what it did, would inevitably inure to SNCB\'s detriment.\r\n    On 4 May, SNCB said that it was considering the cash settlement proposal but asked UBS for an explanation of its claim that there had been a Credit Event. On 10 May UBS replied, saying that there had been a bankruptcy event of default in respect of Ambac.  \r\n   On the 11 May 2010 SNCB\'s solicitors wrote a long letter in which they asked for an explanation as to the basis upon which it was contended that a Credit Event had occurred. Specifically, SNCB asked UBS to identify which Obligations of Ambac had suffered an event of default, as opposed simply to some Ambac bonds being put into a Segregated Account. The letter stated that SNCB saw no basis for saying that a Credit Event had occurred, but wished, nonetheless to understand the cash offer made. In that connection it had to evaluate it as against a physical settlement and asked what the make up of the bonds to be delivered as the Delivery Portfolio would be.  SNCB stated that it was entitled to receive delivery of Collateral Securities and referred to clause 4.1 of the ADA and to Annex A of the Final Term Sheet in support of this contention. The letter also asked why UBS had replaced the Ambac Municipal bonds with cash and asked what the contractual justification was for doing so.\r\n   The evidence of the UBS witnesses was that they did not see this letter as closing the door to a cash settlement. Ms Chan said that in the previous 2 years, SNCB had raised issues with UBS which showed a lack of understanding of the transaction which had subsequently been resolved. As already mentioned, there had been prior discussion of the liberty of UBS to switch both the Collateral Securities and the Reference Entities and SNCB, whilst at one time looking for some change in that, had then appeared to accept the position, as set out by UBS. This  letter of 11 May was the first intimation from SNCB that, not only did it challenge the Credit Event but also contended that UBS was required to deliver Reference Entity bonds from the Collateral Account as the Delivery Portfolio. The letter betrayed, to the collective mind of UBS, a misunderstanding by SNCB of its  contract rights, as it considered that it was entitled to deliver "cheapest to deliver" bonds of the Affected Reference Entity, whether inside or outside the Collateral Account.  Ms Chan did not see it as her task to persuade SNCB that UBS was correct in the view it held, but thought that SNCB\'s stance could change. \r\n   She did not think that anyone internally thought that this was an issue to be dealt with. The issue that they did grapple with, on the evidence of the UBS witnesses, was the existence of a valid Credit Event which had been challenged. Investigations immediately began to ascertain whether they could establish the existence of Ambac bonds where defaults had occurred, to satisfy the request made by SNCB, in contradistinction to mere reliance on the ISDA determination that a Credit Event had occurred. As is plain from reading between the lines of the exchanges, and as appeared from Mr Bonomo\'s and Ms Chan\'s evidence, UBS was taking legal advice and considering whether or not a Credit Event could be established. \r\n   On 18 May, UBS wrote to SNCB\'s solicitors to say that no Credit Event Notice had yet been served, that the Ambac securities in the Collateral Account had been replaced with cash and that it was entitled to do so "at its absolute discretion". That collateralised cash was security for UBS\' repayment obligations under the ADA. Within a week, additional cash had been placed in the Collateral Account, making a total of $12.2M.  It was not that costly to do this at the time. The letter said that a response to the other matters raised in the SNCB letter of 11 May would be forthcoming.\r\n   On the 4 June 2010 the Ambac ISDA auction took place which established levels of trading for Ambac CDSs.\r\n   Whilst the date was unclear, during oral evidence it seemed that UBS had gone out into the market and purchased Ambac Countrywide bonds which led to the discovery on 9 June that a default had occurred on them on 25 March 2010.  A letter from UBS\' solicitors stated that a purchase by UBS of $100,000 of Ambac Countrywide bonds on 2 June which led to the ability to enquire of the Trustees of the bonds as to a default on them. Thus UBS became aware of the default on 9 June. Ms Chan accepted that, at this point, UBS could have served a Credit Event Notice, but it seems, that UBS was still considering its position. On the 17 June, 21 July and the 5-6 August 2010, UBS purchased Ambac Terwin bonds which had an outstanding principal amount of over $19M.  Approximately $3M was paid for them.\r\n   On 24 June 2010, SNCB\'s solicitors wrote in response to UBS\' letter of 11 May, noting that UBS had said that no Credit Event Notice had been served and that UBS had said that it would respond to the SNCB letter of 11 May. SNCB\'s solicitors made it clear that SNCB did not consider that a Credit Event had taken place for ADA purposes and that it was now too late to serve a Credit Event Notice in respect of events in March 2010. (It is now accepted that UBS would be entitled to serve a Credit Event notice within a reasonable time of any Credit Event).  The letter sought confirmation that no Credit Event had taken place to date and/or that UBS would not serve a Credit Event Notice in respect of such events.\r\n   It was on the 12 July 2010 that UBS served a Credit Event Notice upon SNCB by solicitor\'s letter in which reliance was placed upon two Credit Events relating to Ambac.  One of those was a default by Ambac on the bonds issued by Countrywide (which had been ascertained by UBS on 9 June).  The other Credit Event relied on was a default in respect of Las Vegas Monorail Project bonds on the 1 July 2010. Once again cash settlement was suggested as an alternative.\r\n   On the 20 July 2010 SNCB\'s Solicitors asked UBS for details of the bonds which it intended to deliver and the amount of cash settlement which UBS had suggested, without naming a figure, though that would undoubtedly be based upon ISDA auction levels.  A week later, on the 27 July, UBS replied saying that it anticipated serving a Notice of Portfolio on 30 July 2010, setting out the bonds which it would deliver but its current intention was to deliver Ambac Terwin bonds and Ambac Ownit bonds (which it had purchased or was in the process of purchasing).  UBS also said that any cash settlement would be determined by a dealer poll of the Obligations that would have been contained in the Delivery Portfolio but, failing agreement on a cash settlement, it would proceed with Physical Settlement.\r\n   It was on the 9 August 2010 that UBS did serve a Notice of Portfolio, specifying Ambac Terwin bonds alone and, with a transfer effected on that date, the bonds settled in SNCB\'s account on the 12 August as the Delivery Portfolio, with consequent Partial Early Termination of the Deposit in respect of the Ambac percentage for which the ADA provided.  Those bonds had been transferred into the Collateral Account in the 8 days before transfer to SNCB with the removal of $9.95M of cash from that account in the same period.  The value of the Ambac Terwin bonds on the 12 August, on delivery to SNCB, was approximately $2M.  \r\n   THE LETTER BEFORE ACTION AND THE PLEADED CASE The 23 page letter before claim dated 1 December 2010 raised a number of complaints, challenging the validity of the Credit Event Notice and the Notice of Portfolio because of the nature of the bonds. The only allegation made in the letter which found its way into its Statement of Case was that UBS\' exercise of its discretion in replacing the Ambac Municipal bonds in the Collateral with cash and then selling them was impermissible and a breach of contract.  None of the other implied terms nor the "purpose" said to lie behind the discretion were relied on.\r\n   The pleaded case has also evolved with deletion of implied terms in paragraph 9 of the Re Amended Particulars of Claim and the replacement a week before trial with others. Previously SNCB alleged that UBS could only move Collateral out of the Account on the last day of the month and only if and to the extent that there was an excess value over 100% of the MTMV of the Deposit. The only purpose of UBS\' discretion as to the make-up of the Collateral was to enable it to ensure the 100% equivalence of the MTMV in the Account and to transfer Obligations or cash into it, if needed to achieve that. \r\n   The changes in SNCB\'s case suggest before and during the trial, so UBS submits, that SNCB has worked backwards from the result it wants to achieve, constructing implied terms with that in view, and jettisoning and finding others, when persuaded that the current version did not work. It seems to me that there is force in this criticism.\r\n   THE APPROACH TO CONSTRUCTION  Despite skirmishes in the skeleton arguments about the approach to construction of the ADA and the Security Agreement, there cannot really be much issue between the parties in the light of decisions of the highest court of the land on the subject, including in particular  Rainy Sky SA v Kookmin   [2011] 1 WLR 2900 .  The court must consider the language used and ascertain what a reasonable person would have understood the parties to have meant, assuming that reasonable person to have all the background knowledge which would reasonably have been available to the parties in the situation in which they stood at the time of contracting.  Construction is a unitary exercise where regard is to be paid to the overall language and structure of the document concerned and the commerciality of any rival interpretations advanced.  If there are two possible constructions of a commercial contract, the preferable construction is the one which more closely accords with commercial common sense, as gleaned from the relevant surrounding circumstances. If a semantic analysis of the words used in a commercial contract leads to a conclusion which flouts common sense, this would indicate that it is a most unlikely construction which may be rejected.  The overall scheme of the document is important and the individual clauses, sentences and phrases in it must be read in the overall context. Many authorities stress the importance of context and commercial purpose when construing a commercial contract and the need to test the consequences of competing interpretations against the tenor of the whole document, and business common sense.\r\n   So far as the "background knowledge which would reasonably have been available to the parties" is concerned, sometimes described as "the factual matrix", there are limitations upon what the court considers admissible or helpful.  It is clear that evidence of a party\'s subjective intentions when concluding the contract, evidence of its belief as to its meaning or of its aim, and evidence of the parties\' negotiations leading up to the contract, are not admissible as aids to construction.  Evidence of a party\'s objectives is equally inadmissible.  The parties may have different subjective intentions, different objectives, different beliefs as to the meaning and aim of the contract and may negotiate a form of words which is acceptable to both but to which each ascribes a different meaning.  The court then has to ascertain what is the true meaning of those words in the context of the contract as a whole on the basis of what a reasonable person with the necessary background knowledge would have understood the parties to have meant. \r\n   There was evidence in the Witness Statements and oral evidence was given which crossed the boundaries of what was admissible as an aid to construction.  Ms Lauwereys\' evidence of her belief that the ADA required UBS to hold, in the Collateral Account, bonds of the Reference Entities in approximate proportion to the Current Percentage relating to the credit risk provisions and her stated belief in the impermissibility of changing the collateral after a Credit Event had occurred is one example of such inadmissible evidence.\r\n   The approach to the implication of Terms Once again, although the parties differed in emphasis, the decision of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in  Attorney General of Belize v Belize Telecom Ltd  [2009] 1WLR1988, as endorsed and clarified by the Court of Appeal in  The Reborn  [2009] 2 Lloyd\'s Report 639 and by Aikens LJ in  Crema v Cenkos  [2010] EWCA Civ 1444 , sets out the approach which is to be adopted, in the light of the authorities referred to, whether or not all those decisions are technically binding on me.  Paragraphs 16-27 of the Opinion of the Judicial Committee (and the cases referred to therein) and Paragraphs 8-18 of the judgement of Lord Clarke MR in  the Reborn , by reference to that Opinion, the decisions of the  House of Lords in  Trollope & Colls Ltd v NW Metropolitan  Regional Hospital  Board [1973] 2 A11 ER 260, of the Judicial Committee in  BP Refinery v Shire Hastings   (1977) 180 CLR 266  and of the Court of Appeal in  Phillips Electronique v British Sky Broadcasting  [1995] EMLR 472 set out the criteria to be applied.\r\n    It seems to me that the judgment of Lord Clarke MR in the Court of Appeal may provide a gloss on the earlier Privy Council decision, by stressing one element- that of necessity for the implication of a term. The perceived need to stress that element may have arisen because it was being suggested in some quarters that, by assimilating the processes of construction and implication of terms, Lord Hoffman had diluted that requirement. Lord Clarke went to some lengths to explain that he had not. \r\n   It is clear from the authorities, that the court has no power to improve upon the instrument which it is called upon to construe.  It cannot introduce terms to make it more fair or more reasonable.  Its concern is only to discover what the instrument means and it is the meaning which the instrument would convey to a reasonable person having all the background knowledge which would reasonably be available to the parties, with which the court is concerned (Lord Hoffman at paragraph 16).  To this extent the exercise has the same objective as that of construction.\r\n   The question of implication arises when the instrument does not expressly provide for what is to happen when some event occurs.  The most usual inference in such cases is that nothing is to happen.  If the parties had intended something to happen, the instrument would have said so.  This point is made by Lord Hoffman at paragraph 17 and stressed by Lord Clarke at paragraph 10 of the Court of Appeal decision. \r\n   There are however cases where the reasonable person to whom the meaning of the instrument is to be conveyed would understand that  the only meaning  (emphasis added) which is consistent with the overall provisions of the instrument, read against its relevant background, is that something is to happen which will affect the rights of the parties, even though the instrument does not expressly say so.  The implication of the term is not an addition to the instrument but spells out the true meaning of the instrument in the situation for which it does not expressly provide (Lord Hoffman paragraph 18).\r\n   All the various ways in which the test has been expressed in prior authorities, are not to be seen as different or additional tests to the basic question which is "what the instrument read as a whole against the relevant background would reasonably be understood to mean" in the situation which obtains (Lord Hoffman paragraphs 21-27).  The proposed implied term must spell out what the contract actually means.  Thus to say that the implied term must be "reasonable and equitable" or "necessary to give business efficacy to the contract" or "so obvious that it goes without saying", that it must be "capable of clear expression" and that it "must not contradict any express term of the contract" is to add nothing to the central idea that the proposed implied term must spell out what the contract actually means. Though these formulations may assist in considering whether or not it does so, there are dangers in taking them as the litmus test.\r\n   Lord Clarke predicted that the analysis of Lord Hoffman would be as much referred to as his approach to the construction of contracts in  Investors Compensation Scheme v West Bromwich Building Society  [1998] 1WLR896 pages 912-913.  I have no doubt that prediction is correct and the further comments of Lord Clarke are intended to be helpful in bringing about a more focused approach.  What appears from Lord Clarke\'s judgement is that he understood Lord Hoffman\'s quotation of the different ways of expressing the test as being ways of saying much the same thing but that Lord Hoffman was not in any way resiling from the often stated proposition that it must be necessary to imply the proposed term.  It is never sufficient that it should be reasonable, a point he reinforced by reference to the decision of the House of Lords in  Liverpool City Council v Irwin   [1977] AC 239  (which is still binding on me) \xc2\x96 see paragraph 15 in the Court of Appeal Judgement.  \r\n   He drummed this point home by reference to other Court of Appeal authority and in particular the judgement of Sir Thomas Bingham in the  Phillips  case where the latter said that the implication of contract terms involved a different and more ambitious undertaking than that of contractual interpretation of express terms.  The interpolation of terms to deal with matters for which the parties had made no provision was essentially so intrusive that the law had to impose strict constraints on the exercise of its power.  Part of Sir Thomas Bingham\'s speech was quoted and I further quote it here in relation to the difficulty in implying terms in cases different from the paradigm example of the implied term that a surgeon will exercise all reasonable care and skill in carrying out his profession.  \r\n   "But the difficulties increase the further one moves away from these paradigm examples\xc2\x85\xc2\x85\xc2\x85 It is much more difficult to infer with confidence what the parties must have intended when they have entered into a lengthy and carefully-drafted contract but have omitted to make provision for the matter in issue.  Given the rules which restrict evidence of the parties\' intention when negotiating a contract, it may well be doubtful whether the omission was the result of the parties\' oversight or of their deliberate decision; if the parties appreciate that they are unlikely to agree on what is to happen in a certain not impossible eventuality, they may well choose to leave the matter uncovered in their contract in the hope that the eventuality will not occur.   The question of whether a term is to be implied, and if so what, almost inevitably arises after a crisis has been reached in the performance of the contract.  So the court comes to the task with the benefit of hindsight and it is tempting for the court then to fashion a term which will reflect the merits of the situation as they then appear.  Tempting, but wrong.  \xc2\x85\xc2\x85\xc2\x85.  A term can only be implied if it is necessary in the business sense to give efficacy to the contract; that it is, if it such a term that it can confidently be said that if at the time of the contract was being negotiated someone has said to the parties, "what will happen in such a case" they would both have replied, "of course, and so will happen; we did not trouble to say that; it is too clear" unless the court comes to some such conclusion as that, it ought not to imply a term which the parties have not themselves expressed\xc2\x85\xc2\x85\xc2\x85.. And it is not enough to show that had the parties foreseen the eventuality which in fact occurred they would have wished to make provision for it, unless it can also be shown that one of several possible solutions would without doubt have been preferred\xc2\x85 The significance of both  Liverpool CC v Irwin  and the  Phillips Electronique  case is that they both stress the importance of the test of necessity. Is the proposed implied term necessary to make the contract work? That seems to me to be an entirely appropriate question to ask in considering whether a term should be implied\xc2\x85" There is perhaps thus a difference in emphasis between Lord Hoffman\'s judgement in the Privy Council and that of Lord Clarke in the Court of Appeal but the question of "necessity" which Lord Clarke stresses tallies with Lord Hoffman\'s statement in paragraph 18 that the reasonable person, with the relevant background knowledge, assessing the meaning of the contract has to consider that there is only one provision which is consistent with the other provisions of the instrument in the circumstances which prevail and that this provision is not an addition to the instrument but merely a spelling out of what the instrument means.  As he expressed the point in paragraph 22, when discussing the formulation "necessary to give business efficacy", it is not enough for a court to consider that the implied term expresses what it would have been reasonable for the parties to agree to; the court must be satisfied that it is what the contract actually means.  Whilst the contract may be workable in the sense that both parties can perform their express obligations without the implication of the term, the implication is necessary "to give effect to the reasonable expectations of the parties" in the situation in question, because this is what the contract taken as a whole must, on its proper reading, be taken to mean (paragraphs 22-24).  Although it is not necessary in Lord Hoffman\'s view for the need for an implied term to be immediately apparent on a superficial consideration of the terms of the contract against the relevant background, it must be obvious, after a careful consideration of the express terms and the background, that only one answer is consistent with the rest of the document and this must be the meaning of the contract. \r\n   SNCB relied heavily on the decision of the House of Lords in  Equitable Life v Hyman   [2002] 1 AC 408 , where the House was concerned with the implication of a term in relation to the exercise of a discretion of the mutual insurer to declare bonuses in relation to GAR policies, the policies being subject to the rules of the Society.  Lord Steyn distinguished between the processes of construction and implication and emphasised that the legal test for implication of a term was "strict necessity". He held that the test of strict necessity was met because a term had to be implied into the policy provisions for discretionary bonuses that the discretion could not be exercised "in conflict with the contractual rights of the GAR policyholders". The nature of the GAR policy could not be undermined by the exercise of that discretion, however widely drawn. He referred to the "reasonable expectations of the parties" and held that the implied term was essential to give effect to those reasonable expectations. \r\n   Mr Dhillon accepted that when Lord Steyn and Lord Hoffman referred to this expression ("the reasonable expectations of the parties"), they meant the objective expectations to be spelt out from the contract itself and not the subjective expectations of either party. He agreed that what was being said was that a term is only to be implied if it is required to give effect to the objective purpose of the contract. The term is to be implied only if it is necessary in the light of all the other provisions of the contract, against the same background admissible in construction, to reflect the real meaning of the contract.\r\n   In these circumstances the emphasis on necessity in  The Reborn  clarifies Lord Hoffman\'s judgement, although there may be a difference between Lord Clarke and Lord Hoffman as to the "officious bystander" test and whether it is the response of the parties to his question, or his own knowledgeable view of the meaning of the contract that is significant (cf Lord Hoffman at p 1995 and Lord Clarke at p 643-644 by reference to the authorities he cites there). Regardless of that difference, Lord Hoffman understood that test as one which "vividly emphasises the need for the court to be satisfied that the proposed implication spells out what the contract would reasonably be understood to mean".\r\n   There are a number of authorities which set out implied terms limiting the exercise of a contractual discretion, preventing its use for purposes inimical to the contract, its use for improper purposes or its use other than in good faith. I was referred to Brooke LJ in  Ludgate Insurance Co Ltd v Citibank   [1998] Lloyds Rep IR 221  at p239 and Rix LJ in  Socimer International Bank v Standard International Bank   [2008] 1 Lloyd\'s Rep 558  at 577, where he said this: \r\n   "It is plain from these authorities that a decision maker\'s discretion will be limited, as a matter of necessary implication, by concepts of honesty, good faith and genuineness and the need for the absence of arbitrariness, capriciousness, perversity and irrationality. The concern is that the discretion should not be abused. Reasonableness and unreasonableness are also concepts deployed in this context, but only in a sense analogous to Wednesbury unreasonableness\xc2\x85." Lord Cooke in  Equitable Life , at pages 460-462, whilst agreeing with Lord Steyn\'s implication of the specific implied term, stated that the same conclusion could be reached by referring to the principle that no legal discretion could be exercised for purposes contrary to those of the instrument by which it was conferred.  The insurance policies and the powers given by the Rules of the Society had to be read together when ascertaining the policyholders\' contractual rights. However wide the powers apparently given by the contractual discretion, those powers could not be exercised in such a way as to subvert the basis of the contract in question.  He held that the exercise by the directors of their powers to allot reduced bonuses to holders of GAR policies was inconsistent with the purpose for which the power of granting bonuses under the GAR policies was given. The powers had to be exercised in the light of the terms of those policies.\r\n   In  Paragon Finance v Nash   [2002] 1WLR 685 , Lord Justice Dyson at paragraph 36 held that loan agreements which contain variable interest clauses, where the bank had discretion to set the rate, included implied terms that the rates of interest would not be set dishonestly, for an improper purpose, capriciously or arbitrarily.  He said that such an implied term was necessary in order to give effect to the reasonable expectations of the parties and was one of which it could be said that "it goes without saying since, if asked at the time of making the agreement whether the discretion could be exercised dishonestly, for an improper purpose, capriciously or arbitrarily, the lender would have said \'of course not\'". It appears that he there equated honesty with good faith.\r\n   There is, in my judgment a clear distinction between "good faith" on the one hand and "utmost good faith" on the other. The latter concept is familiar in the context of insurance, with its concomitant duties of full disclosure, but has been held in other contexts, when used in commercial contracts, to impose "a contractual obligation to observe reasonable commercial standards of fair dealing, faithfulness to the agreed common purpose and consistency with the justified expectations" of the other party. (See e.g. Morgan J in   Berkeley Community Villages v Fred Daniel Pullen  [2007] EWHC 1330 (Ch) ). The content of the "utmost good faith" obligation may well vary with the context or contract in which it is found, but in my judgment, it is an expression which has conveyed a meaning beyond "good faith" for a very long period of time. A duty to exercise "good faith" in doing something is one which is usually to be contrasted with a duty to exercise reasonable care. It connotes subjective honesty, genuineness and integrity, not an objective standard of any kind, whether reasonableness, care or objective fair dealing. It cannot be equated with "utmost good faith" and although its exercise in practice may involve different actions or restraint, the concept is not one which goes beyond the notion of truthfulness, honesty and sincerity.\r\n   Unlike some bodies of foreign law, commercial contracts are not subject to general duties of good faith and fair dealing and it is trite law that a party does not have to exercise his contractual rights, once properly ascertained, reasonably. If he has rights, the law will not concern itself with the motivation or rationale lying behind his exercise of them \xc2\x96 see  White and Carter (Councils) v McGregor  [1961] AC 413. \r\n   i)\tThere Lord Reid at p 431 said: "It never has been the law that a person is only entitled to enforce his contractual rights in a reasonable way and that a court will not support an attempt to enforce them in an unreasonable way" ii)\tLord Hodson said at p 445: "There is no duty laid upon a party to a subsisting contract to vary it at the behest of the other party so as to deprive himself of the benefit given to him by the contract." Here the position is said to be different by reason of the implication of terms, although any allegation of actual dishonesty was specifically eschewed by SNCB. The implication of terms that the discretion should not be used inconsistently with the aims of the contract objectively construed, or for an improper purpose, or in bad faith is said to be necessary as a result of the granting of the discretion in the context of the ADA as a whole, its underlying objectives and the express obligations of good faith in particular clauses in it. \r\n   THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE ADA Clause 1 sets out the basic provisions of SNCB\'s Deposit and the obligation of UBS to repay sums in accordance with the Repayment Schedule in Annex 1.  The essence of the credit protection provisions are in clause 2 and those of the collateral provisions in clause 3. \r\n   The frontispiece to the ADA sets out, in bold type, the nature of the credit risk taken by SNCB in relation to the Deposit.  "The Credit Risk of the Deposit is that of the Reference Entities.  Principal is at risk on the Deposit if there is a Credit Event in respect of bonds of a Reference Entity".  \r\n   On the happening of a Credit Event, which was defined as any event of default in respect of any Obligation of any Reference Entity (whether there were any bonds of that Reference Entity in the Collateral or not) UBS had the right (but not the obligation), on giving notice, to Deliver the Delivery Portfolio in substitution for partial repayment of the Scheduled Repayments provided in Annex 1.  The Delivery Portfolio was to consist of Obligations of the Affected Reference Entity with a face value equivalent to the appropriate percentage of the Accreted Amount determined by the Current Percentage applicable at the date of the Credit Event to the Affected Reference Entity. It is notable that the Delivery Portfolio is not described as consisting of bonds of Reference Entities in the Collateral Account.\r\n   Repayment by UBS is excused to the extent that it chooses to rely upon any default by a Reference Entity that has been selected by it as a Reference Entity, within the parameters provided by the ADA, to the tune of the Current Percentage.  The frontispiece made it plain that, if a Credit Event occurred, the Deposit would be the subject of early partial termination to the extent of the Current Percentage of the Affected Reference Entity and that, in those circumstances, SNCB would receive Obligations in lieu of repayment, which were likely to have a market value below face value.  The effect of the ADA is therefore that SNCB takes on the credit risk of the Reference Entities, rather than the credit risk of UBS\' inability to repay. Its effect is akin to that of a Credit Default Swap.\r\n   The collateral provided by Clause 3 was to take the form of "Collateral Securities or US$ cash", whilst the Collateral Securities were to consist of "Obligations" which are bonds of any of the Reference Entities that rank at least equal in priority of payment with its senior unsecured debt obligations.  "The Deposit is a secured obligation of UBS and is secured by way of a first priority continuing security interest over the Collateral in accordance with the Security Agreement." The collateral thus provided is expressly given as security for "the Deposit", namely the obligations of UBS to make repayment of the Deposit on the terms of the ADA in accordance with the provisions of Annex 1.  \r\n   If the collateral is maintained in accordance with the ADA, its mark to market value (MTMV) will always match the MTMV of the Deposit (Clause 3.2).  In the event of a default by UBS, Clause 12 provided that SNCB could terminate the ADA and the Collateral would be delivered to it so that it could go out into the market and sell / use that Collateral to purchase a substitute Agreement on the same terms. The collateral provisions in respect of UBS\' obligations to repay are such that the bonds of the Reference Entities, on any actual default by UBS (but not a failure of a Reference Entity) will be of such value as to provide for the purchase of a substitute deposit agreement. \r\n   The nature of this arrangement is of vital importance when considering the proper construction of the ADA, in particular, when considering whether there is a link between the Collateral provisions of the ADA and the Credit Event provisions:-\r\n   i)\tThe list of available Reference Entities is set out in the Schedule to the ADA where Reference Entities are placed into 2 categories, of which the first includes Ambac. ii)\tBy Clause 2 of the ADA, UBS was entitled to select the Reference Entities, provided that the total amount equalled 100% of the Accreted Amount and that, in the case of any specific Reference Entity within the first category, it did not account for the more than 40% of that total. Thus UBS could have ascribed 100% to any one of the US Agencies in the second category or split the allocation amongst category 1 and category 2 entities, provided only that the 40% limit was observed in respect of any individual entity in category 1. UBS had total discretion as to selection of Reference Entity percentages for the Credit Event provisions, within those limits. iii)\tClause 2.1 specifically provided that UBS could select the specific Reference Entities and Clause 2.2 entitled it to change them and the current percentage for any Reference Entity at any time, provided that the percentage limits were observed.  UBS had to notify SNCB of any change to the Current Percentages. iv)\tThere was no restriction on what went into the Collateral Account "from time to time", save that its contents had to be Reference Entity bonds or cash in US$. v)\tIn the absence of any provision that bonds in the Collateral Account would match the Current Percentage allocation, there could therefore, at any time that a Reference Entity failed, be no holdings of that entity in the Collateral Account at all.  This gave freedom to UBS to manage its own investment business in the way it wished, taking a market view about the credit risk associated with any of the Reference Entities, upon which its repayment obligations depended and hedging as it thought appropriate. vi)\tOn the happening of a Credit Event (the default of a Reference Entity so selected by UBS- the Affected Reference Entity), under Clause 4 UBS had the right, on notice, to Deliver a Delivery Portfolio in lieu of partial repayment of the scheduled repayments, thus partially terminating the ADA in a ratio corresponding to the Current Percentage selected by UBS for the Affected Reference Entity.  As I have already pointed out, the definition of Credit Event included any event of default in respect of any Obligation of any Reference Entity.  There was no requirement that the default should be of a bond of that particular Reference Entity held in the Collateral.   vii)\tThe Delivery Portfolio which had to be delivered, on election by UBS to exercise this right, was to consist of Obligations of the Affected Reference Entity, the sum of whose aggregate outstanding principal balance equalled the Initial Accreted Amount multiplied by the Current Percentage then applicable to the Affected Reference Entity.  The Obligations referred to were defined as "any bonds of such Reference Entity" that were equivalent to senior unsecured debt obligations of that Reference Entity. They were not limited to such bonds held in the Collateral Account. Thus far, as UBS submits, the ADA does not provide for any link at all between any bonds of the defaulting Affected Reference Entity which are held in the Collateral Account (a segregated account consisting of Obligations of Reference Entities and/or US dollars cash,  and which constitutes security for UBS\' repayment obligations) on the one hand and the bonds of the Affected Reference Entity which fall to be delivered as part of the Delivery Portfolio on the happening of a Credit Event, should UBS elect to exercise its right to deliver such bonds in lieu of partial repayment, on the other. As already pointed out, there is no requirement for UBS to hold bonds of the Affected Reference Entity in the Collateral Account at all. As a matter of commercial management of its business, UBS might well hold bonds of Reference Entities in the Collateral Account which approximated to the Current Percentage of the Accreted Amount, but it had no obligation to do so, the only requirement being that the Reference Entity bonds in the Collateral should equate in value at the end of the month to the MTMV of the Deposit. It would in such circumstances be very odd (and would require an express provision to this effect) for UBS to be obliged to deliver to SNCB bonds of the Affected Reference Entity which it did happen to hold in its Collateral Account.\r\n   The last sub-clause of Clause 4 makes it plain that the exposure of the Scheduled Repayments and the Accreted Amount to the Reference Entities is to the extent of their respective Current Percentages, as defined, and not to the bonds of the Reference Entity in the Collateral Account at the time of a Credit Event.  Notwithstanding the submissions of SNCB, I am unable to attribute to this last sub-clause any other meaning than that which I have just outlined. Not only does the ADA not require bonds of any particular Reference Entity, nor bonds of the Affected Reference Entity to be held in the Collateral Account, at the time of a Credit Event or Credit Event Notice, it makes it plain that this is not required, because the Credit Event Notice triggers partial termination to the extent of the Current Percentage of the Affected Reference Entity, not to the extent of any Reference Entity bonds in the Collateral Account. Bonds in the Collateral Account must therefore be seen as distinct from the bonds of the Affected Entity which must be delivered as part of the Delivery Portfolio since the credit risk relates to the default of the Affected Reference Entity to the extent of the Current Percentage selected by UBS, not to bonds in the Collateral Account.  What is held by UBS in the Collateral Account, whether including or excluding bonds of the Affected Reference Entity, is irrelevant.  It is thus mere happenstance, if there are bonds are the Affected Reference Entity in the Collateral Account at the time of the Credit Event and it is a matter of choice for UBS as to what bonds of the Affected Reference Entity it delivers as part of the Delivery Portfolio as long as they correspond to the other requirements of Clause 4. \r\n   UBS submits that the commercial basis of the ADA can be identified from these terms inasmuch as SNCB assumed the risk of default in the Reference Entities and agreed that it would receive delivery of bonds of the Affected Reference Entity of the applicable face value in place of its right to the Scheduled Repayments, to the tune of the Current Percentage.  The credit protection provisions of the ADA operated somewhat like those of a Credit Default Swap because UBS agreed to make the scheduled repayments in consideration for the credit protection provided by the Reference Entities and the current percentage mechanisms set out in Clause 2.  The ADA was of course a Deposit Agreement, with the collateral of the Reference Entities provided in case of default by UBS in making repayments, but there were these two elements inbuilt in it. That is why it was referred to by the parties as a Credit Linked Deposit. Given the nature of the credit protection provided, \'cheapest to deliver" bonds would be perceived as the norm for delivery of bonds in physical settlement, as in CDSs. I accept UBS\' submissions on this.\r\n   Clause 3 of the ADA provided that UBS should open a segregated Collateral Account to secure "the Deposit", which, in this context, as is common ground, means UBS\' obligations to repay under the ADA.  SNCB was to have a continuing security interest over the Collateral which was to consist of "Collateral Securities or US$ cash".  "Collateral Securities", in accordance with the relevant definitions, meant Obligations of the Reference Entities, namely bonds of appropriate seniority in those Reference Entities.  Under Clause 3.2, the MTMV (determined by UBS acting in good faith) of the Collateral was to equate to 100% of the MTMV of the deposit, namely the cost of replacing the repayment obligations under the ADA.  The MTMV of the Collateral therefore was not to relate to the MTMV of the Accreted Amount but the MTMV of the Deposit, which in itself is significant in the light of the contentions of the parties about the purpose of the Collateral.  From January 2003 onwards, by Clause 3.3, UBS had to ensure that, on the last business day of each month, the correct amount of Collateral was held in the Collateral Account by transferring Collateral to that account or removing Collateral from it.  On the same day of each month, UBS was also to provide a statement to SNCB of the MTMV of the Deposit and to specify the contents of the Collateral Account and its MTMV, so that SNCB could monitor the position.\r\n   There is nothing in the ADA  which provides that the Collateral Account, which consists of bonds of the appropriate kind of the Reference Entities or cash in US$ is to be security for the credit risk accepted by SNCB in respect of the Reference Entities themselves.  It would indeed be odd to provide security in the shape of bonds issued by Reference Entities in respect of any default of Reference Entities. \r\n   Not only does Clause 3 specifically say that it is the Deposit (UBS\' repayment obligations) which is secured by the Collateral but the amount of security specifically relates to the amount required for SNCB to remedy default by UBS in its repayment obligations. Clause 12 of the ADA provides for delivery of the Collateral in the event of any default by UBS in making payments of any sum due or performing any obligations which remain unremedied for 30 days (or any act of insolvency on its part).  Moreover, the Security Agreement, to which Clause 3 of the ADA refers, provides for enforcement of the security in Clause 8 (the 17 January 2003 Security Agreement) and Clause 9 (the 15 January 2009 Security Agreement), where an Early Termination Date has occurred with UBS\' concomitant obligation to make a payment under Clause 12 of the ADA.  There is no intimation in the Collateral provisions of the ADA, nor in the Security Agreements, of any requirement for the Collateral to be used to satisfy the requirements of Clause 4 of the ADA when delivering the Delivery Portfolio.\r\n   The high point of SNCB\'s case on construction is the definition of "Deliver" in the ADA.  Clause 4 of the ADA provides for UBS to have the right, following the occurrence of a Credit Event, to "Deliver the Delivery Portfolio in lieu of partial repayment of the Scheduled Repayments".  I have already referred in this judgment to the definition of the Delivery Portfolio which makes no reference to delivery of bonds in the Collateral Account, but simply to bonds of the Affected Reference Entity of appropriate priority.  The definition of "Deliver" states that the word "Deliver" means the transfer, assignment or sale, as appropriate, "in the manner customary for the settlement of the applicable Collateral Securities... in order to convey all right title and interest in the Collateral Securities comprising the Delivery Portfolio\xc2\x85 free and clear of any and or liens, charges, claims or encumbrances\xc2\x85. .  The words "Delivery" and "Delivered" are to be construed accordingly."\r\n   The word "Deliver" appears in Clause 4 in relation to Credit Events.  The word "delivered" appears in Clause 12 in the provisions for termination of the ADA as a result of a default by UBS.  Although there is a difference between the use of capitals and small letters at the beginning of the relevant words in the two clauses, it is clear that the concept of "delivery" (whether with a small or a large "d") applies to both clauses.  When therefore consideration is given to the definition of "Deliver", regard must be had to both Clause 4 and Clause 12.  It is plain from the other terms of the ADA, including the definition of the "Delivery Portfolio" that, notwithstanding the reference in the definition of "Deliver" to conveyance of all interest in "the Collateral Securities comprising the Delivery Portfolio", that Portfolio does not have to include bonds of the Affected Reference Entity which are held in the Collateral Account. The ADA gives total freedom to UBS to choose the make- up of the bonds in the Collateral Account, as long as they are bonds of Reference Entities. The bonds in the Collateral Account may or may not include any bonds of the Affected Reference Entity at all.  On the face of the definition of "Deliver", all the "Delivery Portfolio" would have to be made up of Affected Reference Entity bonds in the Collateral Account, whether or not there were any such bonds in that Account or insufficient bonds there at the time of the Credit Event. That creates an impossible situation and SNCB recognises this by saying that conforming bonds can be delivered from elsewhere if needed to make up the appropriate amount. This illustrates the fact that the wording used cannot be definitive of the contents of the Delivery Portfolio, which has its own definition.\r\n   The definition of "Deliver" cannot import a requirement, contrary to the other provisions of the ADA, that the Collateral Account should consist of the same percentage of Reference Entity bonds as make up the Current Percentage selected by UBS for the purpose of the credit risk provisions set out in Clauses 2 and 4 of the ADA.  Since the Current Percentage relates to the Accreted Amount, whilst the Collateral required relates to the MTMV of the Deposit, exact matching is not in any event likely or possible, unless the Accreted Amount and the MTMV of the Deposit happen, fortuitously to coincide. Nor, therefore, can it import an obligation to deliver that percentage of bonds of the Affected Reference Entity which constitutes the Current Percentage, in the Collateral Account, nor any particular bonds held in the Collateral Account as part of the "Delivery Portfolio". The governing provision in this respect as to what must be delivered must be the definition of the "Delivery Portfolio", not the terms relating to the mechanisms of delivery. \r\n   Insofar as the definition of "Deliver" refers to the delivery of "applicable Collateral Security" and "Collateral Securities comprising the Delivery Portfolio" it must therefore only refer to the position where UBS chooses to deliver bonds of the Affected Reference Entity which happen to be in the Collateral Account, which might or might not be the case, and which, where they are, would be likely to be bonds of limited worth, (which UBS might be happy to convey).  Such bonds must be delivered in the manner customary for physical settlement.\r\n   Similarly the Physical Settlement provisions must be read in the same light, when reference is made to representations as to title in the Collateral Securities Delivered, to the applicable Collateral Securities, a point which is reinforced in sub-clause (c)(ii) where provision is made to excuse a failure to deliver or accept delivery of "the Delivery Portfolio  or  Collateral Securities" (emphasis added) on the ground of force majeure or illegality.  Whilst the wording of the definition of "Deliver" and of the Physical Settlement Provisions is infelicitous and gives rise to the argument which SNCB makes, the governing provisions of the ADA are directly contrary to their submissions and the distinction drawn between delivery of the Delivery Portfolio on the one hand and of Collateral Securities on the other, in the Physical Settlement Provisions, mean that SNCB\'s submissions on construction cannot prevail.\r\n   SNCB\'s reliance on clause 5 of the ADA does not assist it.  The suggestion is that, on its construction, it would know the contents of the Delivery Portfolio immediately on the happening of a Credit Event and so could calculate what it might have to pay to exercise its clause 5 rights, whereas on UBS\'s  construction it would not, until the Notice of Portfolio was served. This carries little weight, even if true, but this would not be the case unless there was an obligation to match the Reference Entity Bonds in the Collateral Account with the Current Percentage, since without this, there might be no bonds of the Affected Reference Entity there (or insufficient), and the market value of the latter\'s bonds would be just as unknown. In practice, regardless of either party\'s construction, the bonds of the Affected Reference Entity, save in unusual circumstances such as the present case, would inevitably be of very limited value because of the failure of the entity and if "cheapest to deliver" bonds can make up the portfolio, the parties can work on that basis (whether by reference to an ISDA auction price or otherwise).\r\n   In paragraph 103(4) of SNCB\'s Skeleton Argument, SNCB responded to UBS\'s argument that UBS did not have an obligation to have any or any specific Collateral Securities in the Collateral Account, by suggesting that it was a reasonable expectation of the parties that the Collateral Account would contain Collateral Securities which broadly reflected the Current Percentages applicable to the various Reference Entities prior to a Credit Event. No good reason was given for such an expectation, and, in closing, SNCB said that, if necessary, it would rely on an unpleaded implied term that there should at all times be Reference Entity securities in the Collateral Account which matched approximately the Current Percentage allocated by UBS for the purposes of the credit protection provisions, though no such term was actually formulated. I return later to this in a different context (that of implied terms) but the recognition of the absence of any express obligation of this kind is fatal to SNCB\'s case on construction. SNCB submitted however that the ability of UBS to choose which Collateral Securities to use prior to a Credit Event did not affect SNCB\'s right to be delivered the Obligations of an Affected Reference Entity which were actually held in the Collateral Account at the time of a Credit Event. However  the original concession (necessarily made), made by SNCB as to the choice which lies with UBS in selecting the Collateral Securities, does give the lie to the basis of its argument, since it will be mere happenstance whether there are any Obligations of an Affected Reference Entity in the Collateral Account at the time of a Credit Event, and the Delivery Portfolio must consist of bonds of the Affected Reference Entity, which would have to come from outside the Collateral Account if none were held in it. In such circumstances to seek to import an obligation to deliver such bonds of the Affected Reference Entity which are to be found in the Collateral Account, is hopelessly optimistic in the absence of an express and clear provision to that effect.  There is none.\r\n   An unusual situation arose in the present case, where there were bonds of the Affected Reference Entity in the Collateral Account (the Municipal Bonds) which retained much of their value because they were Municipal bonds guaranteed by Ambac, with value because of the creditworthiness of the Municipalities concerned, whilst other bonds guaranteed by Ambac in the Segregated Account constituted on 24 March 2010, such as the Terwin Bonds lost 90% of their value as a result of the Ambac default. Thus, here it mattered whether or not UBS chose to deliver Reference Entity bonds held in the Collateral as part of the Delivery Portfolio or to deliver other bonds of that Entity which were available to it.   \r\n   Regardless of the likelihood or unlikelihood of this happening -  a situation which the Treasurer of SNCB had not seen before nor contemplated - the rights of the parties, under the ADA, must be assessed by reference to the contractual documentation and its requirements relating to the Delivery Portfolio which UBS was bound to deliver on the occurrence of a Credit Event. Regard must also be had to the specific freedom given to UBS to select and change the make-up of the Collateral Account, without any limitation (save for what the ADA expressly provided) and without reference to the Current Percentage selected for the purpose of the Credit Risk.  The Collateral Account has nothing to do with the Credit Risk, since the Collateral is there as security for UBS\' failure, not as security in respect of the default of any Reference Entity.\r\n   It is clear from Clause 3 of the ADA that the Collateral Account was to consist of Collateral Securities or US$ cash which must amount in value to the MTMV of the Deposit; i.e. UBS\' repayment obligations. It was to be a "first priority continuing security interest" for those obligations. It is also clear from Clause 3.3 that UBS could transfer Collateral in and out of the Collateral Account and had to do so to maintain the appropriate level of security on a monthly basis, providing statements of its contents to SNCB under clause 3.4 so that it could monitor the position.  No distinction is drawn between the senior bonds of the various Reference Entities in the composition of the Collateral and there is no restriction on the use of US$ cash. The central obligation of UBS in relation to the Collateral is to ensure that it equates to the MTMV of the Deposit, but it otherwise has discretion to choose the make up of the Collateral, whether cash or Collateral Securities as defined. \r\n   Clause 3 also provides for the security interest over the Collateral to be in accordance with the Security Agreement which, in its recitals, refers to UBS\' agreement to deposit in the Collateral Account "from time to time" a portfolio of securities and to charge it in favour of SNCB.  Whilst the Security Agreement does not in itself create a charge over cash, the ADA does so by clause 3.1- as continuing security. Both cash and securities are to be in the Collateral Account that is, by definition, a segregated account with UBS, as custodian.  \r\n   There can be no distinction drawn between Collateral Securities and US $ cash for this purpose.  If UBS could choose what Obligations to put in the Collateral Account, it could also decide how much cash it could put in. As a matter of construction of the ADA and Security Agreement, UBS had freedom to populate the Collateral Account with any percentage of any one or more Reference Entity Obligations or with cash, including 100% of either, should it so choose. \r\n   THE IMPLICATION OF TERMS INTO THE ADA. The essential implied terms for which SNCB contended were those set out in paragraph 9 (4)(A) of the Re- Amended Particulars of Claim, namely:\r\n   i)\tThat UBS was not entitled to switch any Obligations in or out of the Collateral Account, once a Credit Event had occurred or once UBS had formed or expressed the intention to serve a Credit Event Notice.  ii)\tThat UBS was obliged to deliver the Affected Reference Entity Obligations that were held in the Collateral Account as the Delivery Portfolio. SNCB also alleges in paragraph 9(4) that terms are to be implied into the ADA that UBS was not permitted to use its discretion to transfer cash into the Collateral Account save for the purpose of ensuring that the MTMV of the Collateral equated to the MTMV of the Deposit on the last business day of each month, where it was unable to transfer sufficient Obligations to achieve that result.  Such cash could only be held temporarily until UBS could obtain sufficient Obligations to replace that cash in the Collateral Account.  This is said to accord with the purpose for which the discretion was conferred.\r\n   The alternative series of implied terms for which SNCB contend, which  are set out in paragraphs 9(5) \xc2\x96 (6) of the Re Amended Particulars of Claim, restrict UBS\' rights and any discretion given to it to change the bonds in the Collateral Account whether for other bonds or cash. UBS is not entitled to transfer Collateral in or out of the Collateral Account or to exercise its discretion to determine whether the Collateral would be in the form of Obligations or cash if for a purpose contrary to the limited rights and/or purposes and/or reasonable expectation of the parties as to SNCB\'s rights, as reflected in the implied terms previously set out.\r\n   Paragraph 9(6) adds that UBS is said to be entitled to utilise Obligations outside the Collateral Account in the Delivery Portfolio  if and to the extent that there are insufficient Reference Entity bonds of nominal value to equate to the Accreted Amount, but also alleges an implied term that UBS is not entitled, when considering whether to serve a Credit Event Notice or after it has expressed an intention to serve such a Notice, to remove such Obligations from the Collateral Account and/or to replace them with cash or Obligations of a lesser value so as to confer on UBS a commercial benefit and/or deprive SNCB of the benefit it is entitled to receive in the form of the value of Obligations held in the Collateral.  \r\n   Finally, in paragraph 9(7), it is alleged that there was an implied term that UBS could only exercise its powers to determine the form of Collateral honestly, in good faith, for a proper purpose, having regard to the terms of the ADA and/or the purposes and/or reasonable expectations of the parties, as set out above and not arbitrarily, capriciously or unreasonably. \r\n   UBS submitted that if SNCB failed to establish its implied terms affecting UBS\' rights under the ADA, it could not then succeed in any argument about implied terms which restricted its discretion. If UBS was entitled, as a matter of contract, to do what it did, no implied term affecting its discretion could cut back on the exercise of those rights. To talk of implied terms which prevented the exercise of a discretion which conflicted with the ADA, or with the reasonable expectations of the parties, or for an improper purpose or in bad faith, where the contract terms allowed such a discretion to be exercised  and no dishonesty was alleged, made no sense. If UBS was entitled on the proper construction of the contract, with any terms implied, to do what it did, honestly believing it was entitled to do so, then what it did could not be in conflict with the ADA, nor contrary to the reasonable expectations of the parties, nor an exercise of discretion for an improper purpose, nor a breach of any obligation of good faith.  Since SNCB accepted that UBS at all times did what it considered it was entitled to do, no question of bad faith arises, unless bad faith has a meaning beyond honesty and sincerity in the context of the ADA.\r\n   As to "the reasonable expectations of the parties", I have already set out, earlier in this judgment, what is meant by that expression, as used in the authorities. It is another way of expressing Lord Hoffman\'s test for implied terms. If it is different from that, it is irrelevant as merely being the subjective hopes or aspirations of one or both parties. The issue is whether there is a term to be implied, to the effect alleged, that accords with Lord Hoffman\'s test, as clarified by Lord Clarke. Does the implied term reflect the true meaning of the ADA inasmuch as it is the only term which, read against the other terms of the ADA and its background constitutes the one and only answer consistent with the rest of the ADA?  \r\n   As to the purpose for which a provision is included, that is a question of construction of the contract, objectively ascertained, not a purpose to be derived from a party\'s statements in negotiation or subjective view. Moreover, if on the proper construction of the ADA, with whatever terms are to be implied, UBS and SNCB have ascertained rights and obligations, that will be determinative of whether a discretion is being exercised to deprive SNCB of a benefit it was entitled to receive.  The conferring of a benefit on one party or the deprivation of another party of a benefit gives rise to no issues, if the contract, properly construed, allows for it.   That is what contracts do.\r\n   The exercise of the contractual discretion given to UBS in relation to the make-up of the Collateral Account, as for the choice of Current Percentage, was, on the authorities subject to the requirements of good faith, use for a proper purpose and not inconsistently with the provisions of the ADA, but does this add anything to the debate? The implied restrictions are there to prevent abuse of the discretion, but there can be no abuse, if the exercise is justified by the terms of the contract.\r\n   Good Faith The ADA contains two provisions which require the exercise of good faith- clause 3.2 and clause 11. The first of these relates to the calculation of the MTMV of the Collateral by UBS in relation to maintaining 100% equivalence to the MTMV of the Deposit. The second requires the Calculation Agent to act in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner but goes on to say that the Calculation Agent does not assume any obligation or duty to, or any relationship of agency or trust for the Depositor, and that any determinations or calculations made are, in the absence of manifest error to be binding on the Depositor. UBS is named as the Calculation Agent which has the tasks set out:\r\n   i)\tin clause 10 of determining the MTMV of the Deposit in the event of termination of the ADA by reason of a relevant change in the tax regime.  ii)\tin the definitions of "Delivery Portfolio" and "Cash Settlement Amount", of calculating the value of  Obligations denominated in currencies other than US$. iii)\tin the definition of "Market Value" where, in the absence of sufficient firm bid quotations from dealers, of determining the cash value of the "Undelivered Portfolio". It is clear that "good faith", where it appears in these provisions, is a limitation on any liability of UBS for erroneous calculations. There is no duty of care upon it in relation to these functions- merely a duty to act in good faith.  In the context of calculating market values of these assets, good faith means no more than honesty. UBS when making calculations or valuations could be right, within the range of acceptable values or wrong. If wrong, that could be the result of a deliberate or accidental mistake. A deliberate mistake would be made in bad faith, whereas an accidental mistake would not be, whether negligent or not. A reckless mistake, if made with shut-eye knowledge might also be made in bad faith, but the critical point is that bad faith in these provisions really does mean dishonesty or lack of integrity. It does not carry the meaning of "utmost good faith". That is reinforced by the phrase "in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner" which draws a distinction between the two.\r\n   The requirement of good faith is limited and specific in the ADA. It is limited to the assessment, valuation and/or calculations mentioned. Where clause 11 refers to the Calculation Agent acting "in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner", that can only refer to the functions to be carried out by the Calculation Agent and not to everything done by UBS, in its capacities other than those of Calculation Agent. The Calculation Agent is given specific tasks to perform, as compared with all the obligations which rest on UBS as UBS. There is thus no basis for importing some duty of good faith into the ADA as a result of these provisions, beyond what the law ordinarily requires. A party must be honest and not misrepresent the position or deceive others. \r\n   As I have already mentioned it is trite law that a party can exercise its contractual rights, regardless of its motivation to do so. The Court does not enquire into that- it is solely concerned with what the parties have agreed and their entitlements and obligations, whether or not they seek to exercise the rights reasonably or unreasonably. The good faith exercise of rights, in the context of the ADA could mean no more than the honest belief in an entitlement to do so. The absence of such a belief could not be relevant to a court construing the contract and determining those rights, since that process is an objective one.\r\n    In consequence, I hold that there is no extra implied term of "good faith" applicable to UBS\' exercise of its rights under the ADA as I have determined them to be and even if there was, it could not affect the issues, particularly as SNCB has eschewed all suggestions of dishonesty or lack of belief on the part of UBS as to the justifiability of its position. \r\n   Whilst the exercise of a contractual discretion is subject, on the authorities to the requirement that it be exercised in good faith, there is no suggestion of bad faith here, in the sense I have described.\r\n   What SNCB was driving at, in all its arguments on this front, was the idea that UBS should not, in SNCB\'s language, be able to "exploit an opportunity to arbitrage" by obtaining Affected Reference Entity bonds which fitted the requirements of the Delivery Portfolio (cheapest to deliver bonds) whilst selling bonds of that same entity that it held in the Collateral Account. Yet if that is what the ADA entitled UBS to do, there is really no more to be said about it. From UBS\' perspective, it had bought Ambac Municipal bonds as part of its business. It used them to provide collateral for its obligations to SNCB, but considered that it was always entitled to substitute them with adequate other contractual collateral and could sell them, whether at profit or loss. Its obligations to deliver under the credit protection elements of the ADA always, in its view, entitled it to deliver "cheapest to deliver bonds" of the Affected Reference Entity, so there was never any question of exploiting an opportunity to benefit itself at the expense of SNCB, since SNCB never had any right to the bonds in the collateral on the happening of a Credit Event. It was  only if UBS itself failed in its payment obligations, that those obligations could be enforced by reference to what was at that time in the Collateral Account.\r\n   The Implied Terms of Paragraph 9 (4) (A) and 9(6) of the Re Amended Particulars of Claim There is no logic to any suggestion in Paragraph 9(4)(A) that the formation of an intention to serve a Credit Event Notice, nor the expression of that intention, whether either of those occurred before or after a Credit Event, has any significance. UBS had the right to serve a Credit Event Notice but not the obligation to do so. If it chose not to, neither the formation of an intent, nor the expression of an intent to do so, could have any contractual consequences. An implied term which focuses on the point in time when an intent is formed or when consideration is being given to service of a notice also has problems of uncertainty.  Nor could the point at which UBS was considering whether to serve a Credit Event Notice, as alleged in Paragraph 9(6)(ii). There are only two points in time which could possibly have contractual significance prior to the service of a Notice of Portfolio:\r\n   i)\tThe occurrence of a Credit Event, if a Credit Event Notice is later validly given, relying upon it. ii)\tThe point at which a Credit Event Notice is served, if a Credit Event has really happened.  It is only the service of such a valid Notice which gives rise to the need to deliver a Delivery Portfolio with the consequent partial termination of UBS\' repayment obligations. Thus a Credit Event in itself has no significance unless a Notice is served. UBS might choose not to rely on it and a Credit Event may occur without the knowledge of UBS, to whose attention the Credit Event may come at a later stage. No notice might ever be served, but on SNCB\'s case, the Collateral Account would be frozen regardless. That cannot be right. Here, in the case of the Countrywide Bond default, UBS only became aware on 9 June of the Credit Event which occurred on 25 th  March 2010. In ignorance of any such Credit Event, UBS might well switch the collateral and this could not be a breach. It was not suggested that in such circumstances, UBS would be bound to reverse the position once it knew of the Credit Event and sought to rely on it, even if such a course of action was possible, which it might well not be. \r\n   None of the trigger dates alleged by SNCB thus makes any commercial sense in the context of the rights given to UBS to manage the Collateral Account.\r\n   Moreover, as drafted, the implied term prevents any movement of bonds or cash into the Collateral Account at one or more of these points. Yet if there is an insufficiency of Affected Reference Entity bonds in the Collateral Account to deliver a nominal value of such bonds which equates with the Accreted Amount, on SNCB\'s own case (as revealed by alternative implied terms), UBS was entitled and obliged to put such bonds into the Collateral Account in order to constitute the Delivery Portfolio.\r\n   The suggested implied term also prevents UBS from removing any Obligations of the Affected Reference Entity from the Collateral Account, but if UBS had surplus holdings in that entity, over and above what was necessary to satisfy the requirement of delivering a Delivery Portfolio which equated in nominal value to the Accreted Amount, it would be a commercial nonsense for UBS to be so restrained.\r\n   Further, SNCB, by asserting three possible trigger dates for its implied term, demonstrates the weakness of its argument that there is a term which is the only term which fits the contract and gives effect to its true meaning. Commercial certainty in a 30 year contract is something upon which both parties laid stress in submissions, but, for the contract to operate commercially in this respect, the date at which the Collateral Account became frozen is a matter of critical importance to the parties, if there is anything in SNCB\'s case at all.\r\n   Critically and more importantly, applying the tests set out in  Belize  and  The Reborn , the implied terms set out in paragraph 9(4) (A) cannot stand. If the contract, on its express terms, as properly construed provides that:\r\n   i)\tthe Collateral Account is security for UBS\' repayment obligations, as is shown by the requirement that it must equate to the MTMV of those obligations; ii)\tthere is no link between the Current Percentage of the Reference Entities for credit protection purposes in the ADA and the holdings of Reference Entities in the Collateral Account prior to any trigger event; iii)\tit is therefore mere happenstance whether the Collateral Account contains bonds of the Affected Reference Entity at all, let alone bonds of a nominal value equivalent to the Accreted Amount; iv)\tthe Delivery Portfolio can be made up of the bonds of any Reference Entity, whether or not held in the Collateral Account; none of the implied terms set out in paragraph 9(4)(A) or 9(6) can be said to express the only meaning consistent with the other provisions of the ADA (as per paragraph 18 of Lord Hoffman\'s judgment). It cannot be said that any one of them is what the contract must mean. None represent the only term which, in the circumstances which obtain, where the Municipal Bonds exceeded the value of the Terwin Bonds at the time of the so- called trigger event, can be seen as expressing the true meaning of the ADA and it is not necessary to imply such a term to give effect to the reasonable expectations of the parties (as objectively assessed) nor to give business efficacy to the contract. Such a term, whichever date is taken as the trigger date, is inconsistent with the express terms of the ADA which, as set out above, provide for the delivery of any Obligations of the Affected Reference Entity, in lieu of partial repayment of the Deposit - see the wording of the frontispiece and the definition of the Delivery Portfolio. There is no link between the Collateral provisions and the Credit Event provisions of the ADA for all the reasons set out in this judgment on the question of construction.\r\n   Whilst Ms Lauwereys, in her second statement, stated that these implied terms reflected her understanding, in cross- examination she said she understood that:\r\n   i)\tthere could be no movement of Obligations in the Collateral Account once the Credit Event Notice had occurred, and any intention to serve a Credit Notice, formed before a Credit Event occurred was irrelevant, whilst ignorance of the Credit Event was effectively a risk that UBS took.  ii)\tit was necessary for UBS to match the Obligations in the Collateral Account of each Reference Entity to the Current Percentages utilised for the credit protection provisions of clause 2 of the ADA, at all times prior to any Credit Event (at least approximately, as there would almost inevitably be a difference between the Accreted Amount to which the Current Percentage specifically referred in Clause 2.1, which was to be selected by UBS, and the MTMV of the Deposit to which the Collateral had to equate).   Whilst this was evidence of subjective understanding, inadmissible in construction of the ADA or for the implication of terms into it, it was significant because it revealed that the signatory of the ADA for SNCB saw that the implied terms did not work without another implied term of matching the holdings in the Collateral Account with the Current Percentage. She saw also the unworkability of the notions of frozen collateral based on the formation or expression of intent to serve a Credit Event Notice, but was not prepared to accept the significance of the choice given to UBS as to whether to rely on a Credit Event or not. The Credit Event could not itself be the point at which the Collateral Account became automatically frozen, since UBS was given the right, not put under an obligation, to serve a Credit Event Notice, so that, if it did not do so, the Credit Event had no consequences for the ADA at all.\r\n   Her recognition of the need for an obligation to "match", as set out above, did not correspond with SNCB\'s case as put at trial either, until in oral argument in closing, Mr Dhillon sought to allege this unpleaded point as a further implied term. Paragraph 103(4) of SNCB\'s skeleton argument, to which I have already referred, accepted that, prior to a Credit Event, UBS had no obligation to have any specific Obligations of any particular Reference Entity in the Collateral Account at all, although it was said that there was "a reasonable expectation" that the Collateral would broadly accord with the Current Percentages selected by UBS for credit protection purposes. "A reasonable expectation", in the context of this paragraph of the skeleton, is contrasted with a contractual requirement, whether express or implied, as is further shown by paragraphs 89(6) and 103(1) of the skeleton. The same phrase as that employed by Lord Steyn and Lord Hoffman is used, but with a different meaning, namely the aspirations of SNCB.\r\n   Unless there was an express or implied obligation to hold Reference Entity Obligations in the Collateral Account equivalent to the current percentage for clause 2 purposes, it would be, as Ms Lauwereys doubtless realised, entirely fortuitous if there were Affected Reference Entity bonds in the Collateral Account and the implied term as to delivery makes no sense. An implied term as to matching cannot be spelt out of the ADA and an attempt to rely on clause 10 in closing as supporting this unpleaded allegation was groundless. Such an implied term is impossible in the light of the terms of the ADA and its construction set out above, as being inconsistent with the discretion given to UBS.\r\n   Furthermore, the effect of the implied term would be to cast on UBS the risk of the bonds of the Affected Reference Entity in the Collateral from the happening of the "trigger" alleged by SNCB. Those bonds would have to be delivered to SNCB, regardless of any change in value from that point onwards, whether a Credit Event Notice was served or not. That might effectively compel the service of a Notice, since UBS\' discretion to manage its investments would be trammelled. Since SNCB was, under the ADA, taking the credit risk of the Reference Entities, this too would appear anomalous and inconsistent.\r\n   For these reasons there is no room for these implied terms, whether the term is framed by reference to the parties\' reasonable expectations, presumed intentions or the purpose of the rights or discretions being conferred. The express terms of the ADA do not require them, and are inimical to them.\r\n   The Implied terms of Paragraph 9(4).   After pleading in paragraph 9(1) and (2) the express term of the ADA which provided for UBS to ensure that, on the last day of the month, the MTMV of the Collateral Account matched the MTMV of the Deposit  by transferring, if necessary, assets to it (whilst not referring to the provision in clause 3. 3 which permitted removal of Collateral in excess of the requisite MTMV) it is said in paragraph 9(3) that transfers into the Collateral Account could be either Reference Entity bonds or cash, at UBS\' discretion. Paragraph 9(4) then alleges an implied term that UBS could only put cash into the Collateral Account for the purpose for which that discretion was conferred, namely to make up any shortfall in the MTMV of the Collateral Account, as against the MTMV of the Deposit, which could not be made up in the time available by the end of the month by acquiring or transferring bonds of a Reference Entity. Such a holding could only be temporary until the shortfall was made good by such bonds.\r\n   Since the Collateral Account could expressly be constituted by bonds or cash, the implication of this term as a matter simply of contract rights is impossible, for all the reasons given in relation to the implied term alleged in paragraph 9(4) (A), in particular being inconsistent with express terms of the contract. So it is, that SNCB allege a purpose for which that admitted discretion to use cash was given.\r\n   Here SNCB seek to rely on a conversation of which Ms Lauwereys gave evidence to show that there was an agreed basis or objective which lay behind the provision of the discretion. At paragraph 38 of her witness statement she said that she had a conversation with Mr Ackerman of UBS in the period 14-23 November 2001 about the reason UBS wanted the ability to post cash as collateral.  She said she thought it odd that UBS should desire this facility because tying up cash in this way would not assist UBS in achieving the Accretion Yield.  UBS were bound to maintain collateral in a value equivalent to the MTMV of the Deposit and she thought it important that the Collateral Account should contain bonds of the Reference Entities.  Her recollection was that Mr Ackerman gave her 2 reasons for wanting the facility to put cash into the Collateral Account.  The first and primary reason was to enable UBS to ensure that the Deposit was adequately secured during the initial period when UBS went out into the market to purchase bonds of the Reference Entities which would be placed in the collateral. (The Collateral Account would have to consist largely or totally of cash in the first place, as it actually did, as notified to SNCB on 21 December 2001). The second reason was to allow UBS to make up any shortfall in the collateral on a temporary basis if UBS was unable to post sufficient bonds in the collateral from the Reference Entities within the time limits provided (initially semi-annually and subsequently monthly) in the ADA. (It seems that there were short periods of time when cash did appear in the Collateral Account, but the reasons for that were not explored in evidence). \r\n   In cross examination she accepted that Mr Ackerman had spoken of his intention to use cash in that way but without expressing any limitation on the right of UBS to utilise cash in the Collateral Account.  Reasons for the inclusion of cash as well as bonds in the Collateral Account were given. The intention was expressed to use cash in the Collateral Account on a temporary basis but there was no agreement to any restriction on UBS rights which, as the ADA clearly expressed, entitled it to constitute the Collateral in any way it wished with bonds of the Reference Entities (within the parameters permitted) and/or US dollars cash.  Moreover, if it had been her understanding or that of SNCB that UBS was not entitled to put cash into the Collateral Account, she accepted that she and it would have objected to this taking place, but it did not do so, when it happened and never contradicted UBS\' statements in correspondence that it was entitled to decide on the composition of the Collateral "in its absolute discretion".  In a letter before claim on 12 February 2009 (on other matters), SNCB referred in terms to the definition of Collateral in the ADA, saying it "can also include cash in US$ as well as Collateral Securities".\r\n   There was no suggestion of a collateral oral agreement or oral variation of the terms relating to the Collateral Account and its constitution. The ADA was concluded long after the events of November 2001, in any event, and it reflected the comprehensive terms agreed in January 2003, regardless of anything that might have been orally agreed in 2001. \r\n   This conversation, about which there was no evidence from UBS, cannot be prayed in aid to restrict UBS\' rights to exercise its discretion to use cash in the Collateral Account. Not only did it take place during negotiations a long time prior to conclusion of the contractual documentation but, although Mr Ackermann may have given reasons for his desire to include the provision, that subjective desire does not constitute "the purpose of the provision". Whatever his expressed reasons at that stage for wanting inclusion of the provision in the then envisaged Deposit Agreement, what was agreed in the final version was a wide discretion as to use of cash or Reference Entity bonds. Subjective reasons for its inclusion may have been very different at the time of negotiating the formal contractual Documentation in 2003 from those put forward in November 2003 when there was only an indicative Term Sheet in existence. There was no intent to limit the scope of the discretion, as was accepted, so that there can be no restricted purpose on a subjective level. \r\n   Nor can a conversation of this kind reveal the objective purpose of the provision in such a way as to restrict its ambit.  Mr Dhillon submitted that a term was to be implied that the discretion could not be exercised inconsistently with the parties\' reasonable expectations or for an improper purpose, and himself maintained that any purpose had to be objectively ascertained under the ADA. The proper purpose requirement is objectively determined by way of construction of the relevant contract. When construing a contract which contains a discretion, any limitation on the exercise of that discretion for its proper purpose must be one that can be spelt out from the terms of the contract or the aims and objectives of the contract or term as objectively determined. If therefore there is nothing in the contract which provides for such a limitation as a matter of express or implied terms, where can any restriction on the exercise of a discretion of this kind come from?  SNCB cannot get in by the back door a term limiting the exercise of a discretion to use cash in the Collateral, when there is no express or implied prohibition on the use of cash in the Collateral per se. \r\n   In my judgment, the evidence of this conversation was inadmissible (see  Chartbrook  (ibid) at paragraphs 32-42), but, regardless of that, it was of no assistance.\r\n   The purpose for which the discretion was given, considered objectively was to enable UBS to manage its business investments as it wished. The business rationale for the provision of collateral is self-evident but the choice was given to UBS so as to enable it to run its own business with whichever holdings it wanted, subject only to maintaining Collateral in Reference Entity bonds to the value of its repayment obligations. That purpose applied as much following the service of a Credit Event Notice as before it. SNCB had no concern over the exact contents of the Collateral Account, as long as its value met the contractual level and cash is cash for the purpose of assessing MTMV equivalence. As envisaged, those bonds in the Account would retain value if UBS failed, as would cash. They were not security for a failure of the Reference Entities themselves whereupon it would be envisaged, in accordance with the words on the frontispiece, that the bonds of the Affected Reference Entity, whether in the Collateral or not (which was a matter of fortuity) would be limited in value and, in accordance with normal practice on credit protection deals, physical settlement would be effected with "cheapest to deliver" bonds. There is thus no special purpose which underlies the discretion given to UBS about the composition of discretion beyond the grant of the discretion itself, subject only to the express limits set out in the ADA.\r\n   The Implied Terms of Paragraphs 9(5) relating to "pure" rights and discretions  SNCB  contends that UBS is not entitled to transfer Reference Entity bonds  or cash in or out of the Collateral Account, whether it has a general contractual discretion or not as to the composition of the Collateral Account in either form, so as to defeat the rights for which it contends under Paragraph 9 (4)(A). To do so would be to defeat the purpose for which the discretion was given in relation to the Collateral and/or the reasonable expectations of the parties. This implied term cannot get off the ground once it is held that there is no implied term to the effect set out in Paragraph 9(4) (A). I have already found that UBS was entitled, under the ADA, to utilise Reference Entity bonds or cash as it wished, provided that the MTMV provisions of the ADA were observed.  Once the contract rights and obligations have been ascertained, there is again no room for the restriction of a discretion by reference to the purpose or reasonable expectations for which it was given, in relation to the self- same matters. If "the reasonable expectations of the parties" here refers to Lord Hoffman\'s use of the phrase (the objective expectations), the argument falls with dismissal of the implied term argument as to pure rights. If it refers to subjective expectations, they carry no weight as against the contract properly construed. \r\n   The argument based on a restriction on discretion, can for the reasons already given above, fare no better than the submission of a restriction on pure rights.\r\n   The Implied Terms of Paragraph 9(7) I have already effectively determined these issues, inasmuch as I have determined UBS\' contractual rights in relation to the Collateral and the delivery of the Delivery Portfolio and have held that there are no implied terms restricting the exercise of those rights in the specific manner alleged in Paragraph 9 of the Re Amended Particulars of Claim. I have also referred to the law in relation to the exercise of contractual discretions and the general restrictions imposed on them. \r\n   UBS was bound to exercise its discretions honestly and in good faith and for a proper purpose having regard to the terms of the ADA. It could not exercise its discretion arbitrarily, capriciously or unreasonably in the Wednesbury sense. Because the ADA allowed it to do what it did and provided for it to do what it did, no question of exercising the discretion improperly in any of these ways raised by SNCB arises.  No allegation is made of dishonesty, arbitrariness, capriciousness, nor of Wednesbury unreasonableness. I have held that the objective purposes and reasonable expectations of the parties were enshrined in the express terms of the ADA, which provided for the rights and obligations in question, without any need for specific implied terms. Thus the general restrictions on the exercise of a contractual discretion take the matter no further than the issue of construction and implication of specific implied terms.\r\n   BREACH AND CAUSATION OF LOSS No question of breach arises on the proper construction of the ADA and because none of the implied terms arise, save the implied restrictions on the exercise of discretionary powers, which, for the reasons set out above, carry the argument no further, once the parties\' rights have been determined.\r\n   As a matter of fact, I find that UBS, through Mr Bonomo, and doubtless on advice, acted at all times in accordance with what it perceived to be its contract rights. It acted in good faith. It used its discretion for the objective purpose for which it was conferred (and, subjectively, for the reasons that it thought it was given such discretion). It did not use it in any way contrary to the implied terms which the authorities show are applicable to such contractual discretions. It did not abuse that discretion and SNCB was not deprived by UBS of any contract right it had in consequence. UBS did not set out to gain an illegitimate benefit at the expense of SNCB.\r\n   Further, UBS did not serve a Credit Event Notice based on the ISDA determination of March 26 th  2010. No date could be relevant until service of the Credit Event Notice of 12 July based on events which came to its attention in June and July 2010.  By that time there were no Ambac Muncipal Bonds in the Collateral Account.  The "manipulation" of which SNCB complains is based on a Credit Event, which it denied at the time was a Credit Event, and upon which, in consequence, UBS placed no reliance, looking for indisputable events upon which it could rely, for the purpose of its Credit Event Notice of July 12.\r\n   Whatever was done with the collateral, UBS was always going to deliver "cheapest to deliver" bonds of the Affected Reference Entity because it considered it was entitled to do so. It was its entitlement to do that, which was in issue- not whether it chose to put them in the Collateral Account prior to delivery of the Delivery Portfolio or not (which it did in an effort to avoid one line of argument). On SNCB\'s case it was the failure to deliver the Ambac Municipal bonds to it, which had been in the Collateral Account prior to the end of April, but not later, and the delivery of the Terwin bonds as part of the Delivery Portfolio which was causative of loss. But as it had no entitlement to any specific bonds but only to bonds of the Affected Reference Entity of the appropriate nominal value, no claim can succeed.\r\n   So far as UBS was concerned there was no question of exploiting an arbitrage opportunity for its profit at the expense of SNCB as it considered (rightly as I have held) that SNCB had no right to bonds in the Collateral Account on the happening of a Credit Event. It was a commercial matter for UBS to determine, in its own financial interest, what bonds to deliver in the Delivery Portfolio as " cheapest to deliver" bonds and what it did with bonds in the Collateral Account, as long as it  maintained the requisite MTMV.\r\n   Once the ISDA determination had been made as to a Bankruptcy event of default by Ambac, if UBS was free to alter the Collateral and sell the Municipal bonds, it is not hard to see why it might make sense to do so, if UBS was exposed on the bonds and other Ambac bonds also, particularly where they had significant value. To delay in acquiring "cheapest to deliver" bonds, affected by the default, such as Terwin bonds would not necessarily result in greater benefit to UBS, since the evidence was that  the experience with Lehman showed that bonds of a defaulting entity sometimes increased in value over a period after the immediate drop following the default.  Mr Bonomo was keen to serve a Credit Event Notice sooner rather than later, but caution prevailed in the light of the dispute over whether a credit event had occurred.\r\n   If SNCB had been right in their arguments, then the loss caused would be represented by the difference in market value on the date of Physical Settlement between the Ambac Municipal Bonds that had been in the Collateral Account, plus the value of the cheapest to deliver bonds necessary to make up the nominal value equivalent to the Accreted Amount on the one hand and the value of the Terwin bonds actually delivered, on the other. \r\n   CONCLUSION I conclude therefore that UBS were entitled to replace the Ambac Municipal Bonds in the Collateral Account at any stage and to sell whatever bonds it had in that Account, provided that the Collateral Account provided security equivalent to 100% of the MTMV of the UBS Deposit obligations in Reference Entity bonds or in cash in US$. It could replace Ambac Municipal bonds of higher value in the Collateral Account with lower value Ambac Terwin bonds, if it kept to the contractual limits. It did not have to deliver bonds from the Collateral Account as the Delivery Portfolio and it was the service of the Notice of Portfolio which crystallised the actual bonds of the Affected Reference Entity that SNCB would receive.\r\n   SNCB\'\'s submissions on construction and implication fail and each of the principal issues set out in paragraph 6 above are to be answered in the negative except for paragraph 6(ii)(e) and 6 (iii) where the answers supplied to the previous questions conclude those issues. The claim must, in such circumstances, be dismissed. \r\n   Absent any special features of which I am unaware, costs should follow the event, but if there are issues on costs, the parties can make submissions and if the parties cannot agree the order which results from my decision, they can address me on it.\r\n    17.7.12. '